{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26 \cf0 In Week 6, the pattern that had been emerging since the inauguration came into sharper focus. Power was not only being gathered at the center; it was being rewired. The presidency, flanked by Elon Musk\'92s \'93Department of Government Efficiency\'94 and a new cadre of loyalists, moved to seize direct control over money, people, and information. At the same time, the institutions that once mediated between the public and the state\'97civil service, courts, press, science agencies, even foreign policy\'97were bent toward personal rule and private gain. The week did not turn on a single spectacular event. It turned on the accumulation of orders, memos, firings, and quiet refusals that, taken together, changed what it meant for government to act in the name of the people. Resistance appeared in courtrooms, statehouses, and streets, but it was defensive and scattered, trying to slow a project that had already moved from rhetoric to structure. That imbalance matters.\
\
At the close of the previous period, the Democracy Clock stood at 7:43 p.m. It now reads 7:44 p.m., a movement of six\uc0\u8209 tenths of a minute. On its face, that is a small shift. But the clock moves only when changes in power, law, and institutional practice alter the conditions under which democracy can function. This week\'92s advance reflects three linked developments. First, the executive branch deepened its ability to act without effective oversight, centralizing control over federal spending and personnel in a new, lightly accountable office. Second, the neutral civil service was pushed further toward a politicized workforce, through mass layoff plans, coerced buyouts, and the reclassification of career posts. Third, the law itself was used more openly as a shield for allies and a weapon against critics, as prosecutions of well\u8209 connected financial actors were softened while immigration, protest, and civil\u8209 rights tools were turned against disfavored groups. Courts and some state officials pushed back, winning injunctions and voicing constitutional alarms, but these were rear\u8209 guard actions against a coordinated redesign of the state. The direction of travel was one\u8209 way.\
\
The most consequential development of Week 6 was the consolidation of fiscal and administrative power in the hands of the president and Elon Musk\'92s DOGE apparatus. On February 26, Trump signed an executive order that placed the new Department of Government Efficiency in charge of overseeing all federal payments\'97contracts, grants, and loans\'97across the government. What had been a dispersed system, anchored in congressional appropriations and agency processes, was now routed through a central node aligned with a single private figure. The order required agencies to build centralized systems for recording and justifying every payment, with DOGE monitoring compliance. Law enforcement, military, immigration, and national security spending were exempted, leaving the most coercive arms of the state outside even this new scrutiny. The same order froze all government credit cards for thirty days, ostensibly to curb waste. In practice, it halted routine operations and, as NIH staff reported, stopped critical research on cancer and Alzheimer\'92s because supplies could not be purchased. Exceptions existed on paper, but the process to obtain them was so cumbersome that, for most purposes, the freeze functioned as a shutdown. This was not a temporary budget fight. It was a structural shift: the power to decide what government could pay for, and when, had moved from Congress and agencies to a presidential ally with no clear line of accountability. That is a different kind of power.\
\
Around this new center, the administration moved to reshape the civil service itself. The Office of Management and Budget and the Office of Personnel Management sent a joint memo directing agencies to prepare for large\uc0\u8209 scale reductions in force and to submit reorganization plans by mid\u8209 March. The language was bureaucratic\'97\'93workforce optimization,\'94 \'93cost efficiency\'94\'97but the effect was plain. Agencies were told to identify \'93non\u8209 essential\'94 employees and functions not mandated by statute or regulation, clearing the way for mass layoffs that would fall hardest on those without political protection. The Social Security Administration announced a major restructuring that could cut up to half of its 57,000 employees, threatening the delivery of benefits on which tens of millions depend. The Department of Education offered staff a buyout of up to $25,000 if they resigned or retired quickly, a sum that many employees noted was less than they would receive under a formal reduction in force. The offer was first retracted, then resent with a tight deadline and a clause requiring repayment if the employee returned to federal service within five years. At NOAA, hundreds of probationary employees, including many hired through programs designed to bring in veterans and people with disabilities, received termination emails. These moves were not isolated cost\u8209 cutting measures. They were part of a coordinated project to hollow out the neutral machinery of government and replace it with a leaner, more pliant structure. The stakes for ordinary service delivery were immediate.\
\
Elon Musk\'92s role in this project was both formal and informal. He attended Trump\'92s first Cabinet meeting despite holding no confirmed office, speaking more than any Cabinet member except the president. Through OPM, he had already ordered all federal workers to email five \'93accomplishments\'94 from the previous week, with failure to respond treated as a resignation. Department heads at the FBI, Justice Department, Defense, and other agencies pushed back, telling their staff to ignore the demand or to pause responses until legal guidance arrived. Health Secretary Robert F. Kennedy Jr. broke ranks, instructing his own staff to comply. Federal employee unions amended their lawsuits to challenge the directive as unlawful rulemaking issued without notice or comment. A federal court later issued a temporary restraining order preventing OPM from disclosing personally identifiable information of federal employees to DOGE staff, citing likely violations of the Privacy Act. Yet even as courts drew lines, the message to the bureaucracy was clear: job security and professional autonomy now depended on the favor of a small circle around the president and Musk. That is how a merit system becomes a loyalty system.\
\
The same week saw a second, related development: the overt politicization of law enforcement and the military. Trump completed the appointment of Kash Patel as FBI director and Dan Bongino as his deputy. Both men were known less for law\uc0\u8209 enforcement experience than for loyalty to Trump and for promoting false claims about past elections. Almost immediately, Patel relocated up to 1,500 agents out of the FBI\'92s Washington headquarters, including counterterrorism and national security investigators. Experts warned that this would weaken the bureau\'92s capacity to monitor far\u8209 right extremism, a concern underscored by Patel\'92s stated intention to shift focus toward Black Lives Matter, antifascist activists, and media. In Washington, the interim U.S. attorney, Ed Martin, publicly described himself and his colleagues as \'93President Trump\'92s lawyers,\'94 a direct contradiction of the oath that binds federal prosecutors to the Constitution and the United States. He had already promised to review prosecutions related to the January 6 attack after Trump pardoned many of those involved. Representative Gerry Connolly opened an investigation into Martin for potential abuse of office, but the signal to the rest of the Justice Department was unmistakable: legal authority was to be used in service of the leader. That is a sharp break from neutral enforcement.\
\
In the military, the pattern was even starker. Trump, with Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth\'92s backing, fired General Charles Q. Brown Jr., the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, along with Admiral Lisa Franchetti, Admiral Linda Fagan, General James Slife, and other senior Pentagon officials. He announced his intention to elevate a less qualified lieutenant general, John Dan Caine, as the new chair. Former defense secretaries publicly urged Congress to hold hearings and to block new nominees, warning of the politicization of the armed forces. Hegseth, for his part, spoke openly of plans to dismiss the judge advocates general of the Army, Navy, and Air Force\'97the officers responsible for administering military justice. Removing the JAG leadership would strip away a key internal check on unlawful orders. At the same time, the Pentagon ordered the services to purge mentions of \'93diversity, equity, and inclusion\'94 from their websites and social media, and announced plans to remove transgender troops unless they obtained waivers. A memo filed in court directed the Pentagon to identify all transgender service members within thirty days and to begin their separation within another thirty. These moves did more than target a vulnerable minority. They aligned the composition and legal culture of the military with the ideological preferences of the president, narrowing the space for independent professional judgment in matters of force. That is how a nonpartisan military becomes a political instrument.\
\
A third development lay in the way law and regulation were applied to friends and enemies. On one side, the administration used its powers to shield allies and donors. The Securities and Exchange Commission agreed to dismiss its lawsuit against Coinbase, which had been accused of operating as an unregistered securities broker, without fines or changes to the company\'92s business practices. This came after Coinbase and its executives poured tens of millions of dollars into a pro\uc0\u8209 crypto super PAC backing Trump\u8209 aligned candidates and donated $1 million to Trump\'92s inauguration. Coinbase also listed Trump\'92s meme coin, $TRUMP, on its platform, enabling ordinary investors to trade a token largely owned by the president and generating at least $58 million in trading fees for him and his associates. In a separate case, the SEC halted its fraud prosecution of Justin Sun, a Chinese crypto entrepreneur charged with marketing unregistered securities and manipulating markets, after Sun invested $75 million in a Trump\u8209 backed venture that funneled more than $50 million to the former president. The SEC and Sun jointly requested a 60\u8209 day stay to explore a resolution, which a federal judge granted. These decisions did not erase the underlying allegations. They did, however, show that financial actors who invested heavily in Trump\'92s political and personal ventures could expect a softer landing from regulators. Wealth was buying law, not just speech.\
\
On the other side, law was turned against disfavored groups and critics. The Department of Education launched a Title IX investigation into Maine after its governor refused to enforce Trump\'92s transgender sports ban, and later opened an online portal inviting citizens to report DEI practices in public schools. The State Department ordered permanent visa bans on transgender athletes who misrepresented their birth sex on applications. ICE was directed to deport hundreds of thousands of unaccompanied migrant children, while migrants sent to Guantanamo Bay reported being shackled, held in cages, denied legal calls, strip\uc0\u8209 searched, and isolated. The administration made biometric registration mandatory for undocumented immigrants aged fourteen and older, with penalties for non\u8209 compliance. At home, Chris Kluwe was arrested at a Huntington Beach city council meeting after delivering a speech likening the MAGA movement to Nazism and approaching councilmembers; he was charged with disrupting an assembly. The International Pride Orchestra was disinvited from performing at the Kennedy Center after Trump\'92s takeover of its board, as events deemed \'93anti\u8209 American propaganda,\'94 including drag shows, were canceled. These actions varied in scale and venue, but they shared a logic: the tools of law and public authority were to be used to discipline those whose identities or speech challenged the regime\'92s narrative. Citizenship and basic rights were being sorted by wealth, ideology, and heritage.\
\
The week also brought a coordinated assault on the country\'92s knowledge and health infrastructure. At NIH, the administration continued to block DEI\uc0\u8209 related grants and to prevent the publication of new grant notices in the Federal Register, despite a federal court\'92s temporary restraining order. Internal memos showed that staff had been ordered to search for and freeze awards containing certain keywords, affecting research on cancer, heart disease, and other conditions. Trump had already issued an order suspending almost all NIH grants and limiting the agency\'92s ability to pay indirect costs that support lab infrastructure; a judge had blocked parts of this order, but the administration found ways to delay funding in practice. On February 26, the CDC canceled a meeting of its Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices, and the FDA canceled a meeting to select flu strains for the coming season\'92s vaccines, even as a severe flu season and a measles outbreak were underway. An unvaccinated child in Texas died of measles, the first such death in the United States since 2015. At HHS, Robert F. Kennedy Jr. announced plans to eliminate public participation in many policy decisions, reversing his earlier promise of \'93radical transparency.\'94 Together, these moves weakened the capacity of public health institutions to respond to disease and cut the public out of decisions that would shape their own safety. The costs were measured in lives as well as norms.\
\
Science and climate agencies were hit just as hard. The administration announced plans to cut roughly a third of NOAA\'92s budget, demanded access to its IT systems, and asserted editorial control over internal sites. Hundreds of NOAA employees, including weather forecasters and climate scientists, were fired, with total cuts projected to reach 800 to 1,000 positions. Former officials warned that these losses would jeopardize national security and public safety by degrading weather forecasting and climate monitoring. At the Environmental Protection Agency, Trump announced plans to cut 65 percent of the budget, a move that could eliminate thousands of jobs and cripple enforcement of environmental protections. The Department of Agriculture, having previously fired staff working on a bird flu outbreak, scrambled to rehire some of them as the crisis worsened. The Social Security Administration prepared for a major restructuring that could halve its workforce. These were not mere budget adjustments. They were steps toward a state that no longer maintained robust, independent capacity in science, environment, and social insurance, but instead relied on a thinner, more politicized apparatus. That shift is hard to reverse once expertise is driven out.\
\
While domestic institutions were being reshaped, U.S. foreign policy tilted further toward authoritarian alignment and transactional deals. At the United Nations, the United States voted against a General Assembly resolution condemning Russia\'92s aggression in Ukraine and demanding withdrawal from occupied territories, aligning itself with Russia, North Korea, and Belarus. In the Security Council, the U.S. drafted a resolution that took a more conciliatory stance toward Russia; Moscow voted in favor after failing to amend it, and used its veto to block European efforts to add language supporting Ukraine. Trump directed Secretary of State Marco Rubio and National Security Advisor Mike Waltz to negotiate an end to the war directly with Russian officials, excluding Ukraine and European allies. In public, he refused to call Vladimir Putin a dictator while labeling Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky a dictator and falsely claiming that Ukraine had started the war. At the same time, Trump announced that Zelensky would visit the White House to sign a minerals deal: Ukraine would grant the United States access to its mineral resources, including rare earths and materials for electronics and military equipment, in exchange for $350 billion in military aid. The deal was more favorable than an earlier proposal demanding $500 billion in repayment, but it offered no long\uc0\u8209 term security guarantees. In the Oval Office, Trump and Senator JD Vance confronted Zelensky, demanding concessions and suggesting that U.S. aid might be cut off. Western media outlets such as Reuters and the Associated Press were excluded from the meeting; a Russian state news agency reporter was initially allowed in before being removed after complaints. Abroad, Canada and Mexico bristled at new U.S. tariffs and threats, with Canadians organizing a boycott of American products and Mexico expanding its lawsuit against U.S. gun manufacturers. The administration also cut funding for UNAIDS and suspended foreign aid that supported refugee clinics along the Thai\u8209 Myanmar border, leading to deaths when refugees could not access care. These choices signaled a foreign policy that treated alliances and human rights as negotiable, while favoring authoritarian partners and deals that enriched or empowered those close to the president. The pattern was consistent.\
\
The information sphere, too, was reshaped. Trump signed an order renaming the Gulf of Mexico as the \'93Gulf of America\'94 and barred Associated Press reporters from the Oval Office, Air Force One, and other events when the AP refused to adopt the new term. A federal judge declined to grant the AP a temporary restraining order, finding no irreparable harm in the loss of access to \'93more private areas,\'94 though he urged the administration to reconsider. The White House then announced that it would take control of the presidential press pool, displacing the White House Correspondents\'92 Association, and that Press Secretary Karoline Leavitt would decide which journalists could attend briefings. Fox News and other outlets criticized the move as an attack on press independence. Trump used his social media platform to call MSNBC a \'93threat to democracy\'94 and to attack individual journalists like Joy Reid with personal and racialized insults. At a joint press conference with French President Emmanuel Macron, he called first on a far\uc0\u8209 right journalist, Brian Glenn, signaling his preference for aligned media. Meanwhile, Jeff Bezos directed The Washington Post\'92s opinion section to focus on \'93personal liberties\'94 and \'93free markets,\'94 prompting the resignation of the opinion editor and several writers. These changes did not abolish the free press. They did, however, narrow the channels through which the public could reliably observe and question those in power. Information was being curated from above.\
\
Against this backdrop, there were pockets of resistance and institutional resilience. Federal judges issued nationwide injunctions blocking Trump\'92s anti\uc0\u8209 DEI orders in government and contracting, finding likely violations of the First and Fifth Amendments. Courts in Maryland and New York granted temporary restraining orders preventing DOGE and OPM from accessing or sharing sensitive personal data of federal employees, student loan recipients, and veterans without a lawful need\u8209 to\u8209 know. Another judge blocked ICE from conducting enforcement operations at certain houses of worship and extended protections for trans women in federal prisons, preventing their transfer to men\'92s facilities under a Trump order. A federal court ordered the administration to pay billions in foreign aid it had withheld, though the Supreme Court later stayed that order, giving the administration more time. The Supreme Court also overturned the conviction and death sentence of Richard Glossip, citing prosecutors\'92 failure to disclose exculpatory evidence, and declined to hear challenges to abortion clinic buffer zones, leaving protections in place. Educators and teachers\'92 unions sued the Department of Education over anti\u8209 DEI civil\u8209 rights guidance and threats to cut funds from schools that considered race in hiring. Maine\'92s governor publicly defied Trump\'92s transgender sports order, pledging to follow state and federal law instead. Protesters gathered at Tesla dealerships and organized a nationwide economic boycott against anti\u8209 DEI policies and social cuts. These actions did not reverse the week\'92s structural changes, but they showed that the legal and civic tools of democracy had not yet been extinguished. They remain available, if used.\
\
What lies ahead is already partly visible. Agencies must submit their layoff and reorganization plans by mid\uc0\u8209 March, and the Social Security Administration\'92s restructuring will test how far the administration can go in shrinking a core social program without legislative change. The Senate is scheduled to vote on Linda McMahon\'92s nomination as secretary of education, even as reports circulate of an executive order to abolish the department. Courts will continue to hear challenges to DOGE\'92s data access, NIH\'92s funding freezes, and the administration\'92s anti\u8209 DEI directives. The Associated Press\'92s lawsuit over press access will move forward, as will congressional inquiries into Ed Martin\'92s conduct as U.S. attorney. Abroad, the minerals deal with Ukraine and the administration\'92s stance at the United Nations will shape not only the course of that war but also the credibility of U.S. commitments to democratic allies. Each of these processes will either reinforce the new pattern of centralized, personalized power or mark points of friction where the old constitutional order still asserts itself. The outcomes will not be abstract.\
\
By the end of Week 6, the Democracy Clock stands at 7:44 p.m. The formal distance from midnight remains large, but the direction of movement is clear. Executive power now operates with less effective oversight than it did a month earlier, not because Congress has changed the Constitution, but because the machinery of spending, staffing, and enforcement has been drawn into a tight circle around the president and a small group of private actors. Civil service protections, once a quiet guarantee that government expertise would outlast any one administration, are being eroded through mass layoffs, coerced exits, and politicized appointments. Law, which in a healthy democracy limits what rulers may do, is increasingly used to protect allies from consequence and to punish critics and vulnerable groups. The week matters not only for what it did, but for what it normalized: that a president may treat foreign policy as a series of personal deals, that regulators may retreat from cases after large political donations, that scientific and health institutions may be sidelined in favor of ideological narratives, and that the press may be admitted or excluded based on its loyalty. The clock\'92s small advance captures a larger truth. The system still contains pockets of resistance and legal constraint, but the balance is shifting. Each additional minute makes it harder to imagine a simple return to the prior state, and easier to see how democracy can be hollowed out while its forms remain.}