{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26 \cf0 In Week 10, the story of Trump\'92s second term narrowed around a single, stark pattern: the state was turned inward, against its own guardrails. Executive orders, immigration flights, labor decrees, and even museum labels were pulled into a single project. Law became less a boundary and more a weapon. The week did not hinge on one spectacular crisis, but on a dense run of decisions that changed who could work, who could vote, who could stay, and who could speak. The Democracy Clock barely moved in public terms, yet the structure beneath it shifted in ways that will be hard to unwind.\
\
At the close of the prior period, the Clock stood at 7:49 p.m. It ends Week 10 at the same public time, 7:49 p.m., though the internal measure crept forward by a fraction of a minute. The face did not change, but the gears did. The small net movement reflects two forces pulling against each other. On one side, a surge of executive orders and enforcement choices pushed power toward the presidency, hollowed out labor protections, and narrowed the franchise under the banner of \'93integrity.\'94 On the other, courts, some state officials, and civil society groups managed to slow or block pieces of that program. The week\'92s meaning lies in that tension. The executive branch showed how far it was willing to go, and the rest of the system showed how much strain it can bear before something breaks.\
\
The first major development was the open repurposing of law as an instrument of retribution. The clearest example came in the campaign against disfavored law firms. Over several days, the White House issued and refined executive orders that stripped security clearances from attorneys at firms such as Paul Weiss, Perkins Coie, Jenner & Block, and WilmerHale, barred their lawyers from federal buildings, and threatened their government contracts. The stated grounds were national security and alleged discrimination, but the real through-line was past work for Trump\'92s adversaries, from special counsel Jack Smith to Hillary Clinton\'92s campaign. In one case, Paul Weiss faced what its own leaders described as an existential threat until it agreed to provide $40 million in pro bono services to causes aligned with the president and to abandon race-conscious hiring. In another, Skadden avoided a punitive order by pledging at least $100 million in pro bono work and dropping race-based practices. These were not ordinary settlements. They showed the presidency using the machinery of the state to coerce private legal actors into service and silence. Wealth and proximity to power bought relief. Independence carried a price.\
\
The campaign did not stop at contracts and clearances. Trump ordered Attorney General Pam Bondi to flag \'93partisan\'94 lawsuits for White House review and to recommend sanctions against the lawyers who filed them. He signed an order encouraging disciplinary action against attorneys who brought what he deemed frivolous cases against his administration. At the same time, House Republicans introduced resolutions to impeach Judge James Boasberg and other judges who had ruled against key policies, while the Justice Department tried to remove Judge Beryl Howell from a case after she blocked one of the punitive orders. The message was blunt. Judges who enforced constitutional limits could face impeachment or recusal campaigns; lawyers who represented the wrong clients could lose their livelihoods. Law, in this pattern, ceased to be a neutral field and became a terrain of punishment and reward.\
\
The second development was the use of emergency language and old statutes to bypass due process in immigration, and the willingness to defy courts when they resisted. The administration invoked the 1798 Alien Enemies Act to deport hundreds of Venezuelan men, many with Temporary Protected Status, to El Salvador. Tattoos and vague suspicions of gang ties were treated as sufficient grounds. When Judge Boasberg ordered deportation flights turned around and later required hearings before removal, the administration argued that his jurisdiction stopped at the water\'92s edge and continued flights anyway. An ACLU affidavit from a woman on one plane described ICE officials acknowledging the order and proceeding regardless. Appeals courts in Washington upheld temporary blocks on these deportations, and one judge compared the treatment of these migrants unfavorably to the way the United States had handled Nazi detainees under the same statute. Yet deportations to El Salvador\'92s mega-prison continued, and Homeland Security Secretary Kristi Noem filmed herself touring the facility, warning others to self-deport or face similar conditions. The law here was not a shield for the vulnerable. It was a flexible tool, stretched to fit a desired outcome and set aside when it interfered.\
\
This same logic reached into the country\'92s campuses and laboratories. Immigration officers detained students and researchers from Turkey, Iran, Russia, and elsewhere, often tied to pro-Palestinian activism or paperwork errors. Rumeysa Ozturk, a Turkish doctoral student at Tufts, was arrested by masked officers and transferred to Louisiana despite a court order requiring 48 hours\'92 notice before moving her out of Massachusetts. A federal judge demanded an explanation. Yunseo Chung, a permanent resident and Columbia student, saw her green card revoked and faced deportation after Gaza solidarity protests, until courts stepped in with restraining orders. A Russian scientist at Harvard, Kseniia Petrova, was detained at Boston airport over a customs mistake, despite a valid visa and fear of persecution at home. In each case, immigration status became a lever to discipline speech and scholarship. The courts could slow individual removals, but the pattern was clear. Citizenship and the right to remain were being stratified by ideology and origin.\
\
The third development centered on elections and the definition of the electorate. On March 25, Trump signed an executive order titled \'93Preserving and Protecting the Integrity of American Elections.\'94 In practice, it did the opposite. The order required documentary proof of U.S. citizenship\'97passports, birth certificates, or similar documents\'97for federal voter registration, and threatened to cut federal funds from states that did not comply. It directed the Justice Department to prioritize \'93election crimes\'94 and sought to bar states from counting mail ballots that arrived after Election Day, even if postmarked on time. It also gave the Department of Government Efficiency, a Musk-linked entity known as DOGE, access to state voter lists, opening the door to large-scale purges under the guise of list maintenance. Critics pointed out that the Constitution assigns the setting of election rules to states and Congress, not to a single executive order. Several states prepared legal challenges. But while the courts deliberated, the order itself changed the terrain. Millions of eligible voters\'97naturalized citizens, elderly people without ready documents, low-income citizens without passports\'97now faced new hurdles. Voter suppression was wrapped in the language of integrity.\
\
At the same time, money and influence pressed on the judiciary from another angle. In Wisconsin, Elon Musk\'92s political action committee poured $19 million into a state supreme court race, offering $100 payments and a $1 million prize tied to a petition against \'93activist judges.\'94 Musk later announced that a Wisconsin voter had indeed received the million-dollar award. State officials and the Democratic candidate called the scheme corrupt, and the Wisconsin Department of Justice signaled it would seek a court order to stop what it viewed as vote-buying. The election would decide control of the state\'92s highest court. Here, too, law and money intertwined. A single billionaire\'92s spending and gimmicks threatened to tilt a judicial bench that would later rule on voting rights, gerrymanders, and oversight of the very administration that had welcomed his influence.\
\
The fourth development was a structural assault on labor protections and the civil service. In one week, the administration moved to strip collective bargaining rights from vast swaths of the federal workforce and to hollow out key agencies. On March 27, Trump signed an order excluding agencies involved in intelligence, defense, and homeland security from the federal labor-management relations program, citing national security. Another order, issued the same day, went further, eliminating collective bargaining for hundreds of thousands of federal workers across multiple departments. The Office of Personnel Management followed with instructions to terminate existing union contracts and stop collecting dues through payroll. In parallel, reports emerged of plans to cut between 8% and 50% of staff at agencies such as Housing and Urban Development, Interior, and the IRS. At Health and Human Services, Robert F. Kennedy Jr. announced 10,000 job cuts, the closure of half the department\'92s regional offices, and the creation of a new \'93administration for a healthy America,\'94 while HHS canceled more than $12 billion in grants for mental health, addiction treatment, and infectious disease tracking.\
\
These moves did more than shrink government. They changed who government serves. A politicized Department of Education was already being dismantled by executive order, with student loan oversight gutted. At the Social Security Administration, a former DOGE operative was installed as chief information officer just after a court barred DOGE affiliates from accessing SSA databases, a maneuver that looked like an attempt to sidestep the order while preserving access to sensitive personal data. Acting SSA Commissioner Leland Dudek even threatened to shut down the agency in response to the court\'92s restrictions, using the prospect of delayed benefits as leverage. Taken together, these actions turned a neutral civil service into a more precarious, more loyal, and more easily directed workforce. Workers lost bargaining power; agencies lost capacity; the public lost reliable service.\
\
The fifth development lay in the realm of information, secrecy, and national security. The Signal war-plans scandal, which had begun earlier, deepened this week into a full institutional crisis. Senior officials, including Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth, National Security Adviser Mike Waltz, and Vice-President JD Vance, had used an unapproved, auto-deleting Signal group chat to plan airstrikes on Houthi targets in Yemen. By error, they added Jeffrey Goldberg, editor of The Atlantic, to the chat. He watched as they discussed targeting details, timing, and even potential economic gains. The Pentagon had already warned staff against using Signal due to a vulnerability exploitable by Russian hackers, yet the president\'92s team used it for live war planning. When the story broke, the administration insisted that no classified information had been shared. Subsequent leaks of the messages, and reporting that some participants were overseas\'97including in Moscow\'97contradicted that claim. Intelligence chiefs faced hostile questioning in House and Senate hearings. A watchdog group sued, arguing that the use of auto-deleting chats violated the Federal Records Act. Chief Judge Boasberg ordered all messages preserved. A bipartisan pair of senators demanded an inspector general investigation. German reporters then found the private email addresses and passwords of several officials involved in hacked data dumps, and Wired revealed that Waltz\'92s Venmo account, with hundreds of visible contacts including journalists, had been left public.\
\
In a healthy system, such a breach would trigger swift accountability. Here, the president refused to fire Waltz or Hegseth, reportedly to avoid giving the appearance of conceding error to the press. Instead, he downplayed the incident as a minor glitch and mused about broader federal use of Signal. The administration invoked the state secrets privilege in the Alien Enemies Act litigation, limiting what courts and the public could learn about deportation flights. A government watchdog sued over Signal use; another suit pressed for preservation of the chat. Congress held hearings; inspectors general were asked to investigate. Yet the people who had made the decisions remained in place, and the tools they had used\'97encrypted apps, auto-deleting messages, informal channels\'97remained at hand. The net effect was to normalize a mode of governance in which lethal decisions are made in private, records are ephemeral, and oversight arrives late, if at all.\
\
The sixth development concerned universities, culture, and the curation of national memory. Federal power pressed hard on campuses and museums. The administration withheld $400 million in grants from Columbia University, citing antisemitism, until it agreed to changes demanded by Washington. It cut $400 million in public health research funding at Columbia, prompting lawsuits from faculty and labor unions. The American Association of University Professors and the Middle East Studies Association sued to stop deportations of foreign students and scholars targeted for pro-Palestinian views, arguing that the government was creating a \'93climate of repression\'94 on campuses. At the same time, the University of Michigan shut down its flagship diversity, equity, and inclusion program and its health equity office, explicitly to comply with anti-DEI executive orders and avoid threats to federal funding. In Texas, the state senate advanced bills that criminalized the provision of certain books by teachers and librarians, banned DEI policies and discussion of gender and sexuality in schools, and required daily prayer and Ten Commandments displays in classrooms.\
\
Over all this, the White House laid a new layer of control. An executive order titled \'93Restoring Truth and Sanity to American History\'94 directed Vice-President Vance to ensure that federal sites, including the Smithsonian, removed \'93improper, divisive, or anti-American ideology\'94 from exhibits and programs. It called for the restoration of monuments and the removal of displays that \'93degrade\'94 shared values. A separate order targeted Smithsonian funding more directly, tying it to compliance with this vision. Trump\'92s earlier expansionist rhetoric about acquiring Greenland, Canada, and other territories, and JD Vance\'92s remarks in Greenland urging independence from Denmark to join the United States, fit into this same frame: a history that glorifies conquest and erases dissent. Museums, textbooks, and university programs became contested ground, not over facts alone, but over who gets to define the nation\'92s story.\
\
The seventh development was the alignment of security forces and law enforcement with elite and corporate interests, often at the expense of broader public safety. The FBI created a task force to investigate vandalism at Tesla dealerships and charging stations, reassigning up to 1,000 agents, including some who had pursued child abusers. Attorney General Bondi announced domestic terrorism charges against people accused of damaging Tesla property, and Trump declared that such acts were worse than the January 6 attack on the Capitol. At the same time, the administration cut funding for a national database tracking domestic terrorism, hate crimes, and school shootings. Protesters at Tesla sites faced violence from Trump supporters wielding cars and tasers. Bondi labeled pro-Palestinian student protesters \'93domestic terrorists\'94 and warned a member of Congress to \'93tread very carefully\'94 in criticizing Musk. Security resources were concentrated on protecting a favored corporation and its owner, while tools for tracking broader threats were weakened. The pattern was not subtle. Police and federal agents were being steered to guard the interests of those closest to power.\
\
Amid these shifts, there were pockets of resistance and resilience. Courts blocked the administration\'92s attempt to reinstate a ban on transgender military service, calling the self-reporting requirement an invasion of privacy. The Ninth Circuit refused to pause an order requiring the rehiring of more than 17,000 probationary federal employees fired in a workforce reduction. A district judge preserved funding for Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty, protecting an independent media outlet from executive cuts. The Supreme Court declined to revisit New York Times v. Sullivan, leaving in place the high bar public figures must clear to win defamation suits. In Louisiana, the Supreme Court heard arguments in a redistricting case that could weaken the Voting Rights Act, but for now the law remained intact. These decisions did not reverse the week\'92s structural moves, but they showed that some institutional reflexes for fairness and restraint still functioned.\
\
There were also signs of political counter-mobilization. In Pennsylvania, Democrat James Malone won a state senate seat in a district Trump had carried by a wide margin, helping preserve a slim Democratic majority in the state house. Grassroots protesters under the banner \'93TeslaTakedown\'94 demonstrated at dealerships against Musk\'92s role in government cuts. Senator Bernie Sanders and Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez drew large crowds on a \'93Fighting Oligarchy\'94 tour through Republican districts. Public media leaders from NPR and PBS defended their work in a hostile congressional hearing, citing broad public support. These actions did not change the orders signed in the Oval Office, but they kept alive alternative centers of legitimacy and narrative.\
\
Looking ahead from Week 10, several processes were already in motion. Lawsuits by law firms, watchdogs, universities, and unions will test whether courts can still restrain executive overreach in areas ranging from records retention to labor rights and campus speech. Appeals over the Alien Enemies Act deportations and the emergency petition to the Supreme Court will determine how far a president can go in using wartime statutes against migrants. The new election order will face constitutional challenges from states and voting-rights groups. Inspector general and congressional investigations into the Signal scandal will probe whether senior officials misled lawmakers and violated security protocols. Texas\'92s curriculum and DEI bills, if enacted, will reshape public education for millions of children. These are not speculative risks. They are scheduled confrontations.\
\
In the larger arc of the term, Week 10 matters because it shows the regime\'92s governing method in full: rule by overlapping shocks. In seven days, the administration rewrote election rules, gutted collective bargaining, weaponized immigration law, coerced law firms, re-scripted national history, and mishandled war planning on an unsecured app. Each move generated its own controversy, lawsuit, or hearing. Together, they created a field of chaos in which no single institution could respond to all fronts at once. That is how the Democracy Clock inches forward even when the hands seem still. The formal time at the end of the week remains 7:49 p.m., but the distance between law and power has grown. The system has not yet tipped into open authoritarian rule. Courts still issue restraining orders; journalists still publish leaks; voters still surprise in special elections. Yet the cost of using those freedoms is rising, and the tools available to those who would close them down are multiplying. Time, in this account, is not only what the clock shows. It is the shrinking space in which a democracy can still repair itself.}