{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26 \cf0 Week 22: Citizenship as Sorting Mechanism\
A week of layered decisions that turned immigration, protest, markets, and memory into tools for ranking who belongs and who may be punished.\
The twenty-second week of Trump\'92s second term did not hinge on a single order or speech. It unfolded instead as a dense layering of decisions that reached into who may belong, who may protest, who may profit, and which stories the country is allowed to tell about itself. Immigration raids, court rulings, corporate retreats from civil-rights commitments, and symbolic edits in the White House all pointed in the same direction: a state more willing to sort people by loyalty and usefulness, and less willing to accept limits on how that sorting is done. The pattern grew clearer. It also grew harder to ignore.\
At the close of Week 21, the Democracy Clock stood at 8:00 p.m. It ended Week 22 at the same public time, with a net movement of 0.3 minutes. The face did not change, but the mechanism inside shifted. The small advance captured a week in which executive power pressed outward on many fronts\'97immigration, energy, tech, public memory\'97while courts and parts of Congress managed to claw back space in a few domains. The balance of power did not break. Yet the cost of resistance rose, and the hierarchy of who is protected, and who is exposed, became sharper.\
The clearest expression of that hierarchy appeared in the immigration system. Early in the week, Trump signed orders directing DHS and DOJ to target and defund \'93sanctuary\'94 jurisdictions, turning federal funding into leverage over local immigration policy. At the same time, he and adviser Stephen Miller set high daily arrest quotas for ICE\'973,000 arrests per day\'97and broadened enforcement to include large numbers of non-criminal migrants. Immigration law did not change on paper. The meaning of enforcement did. It became a volume campaign, aimed as much at political geography as at individual conduct.\
On the ground, that shift translated into raids that reached deep into civic life. ICE teams swept through Democratic-run cities, hitting swap meets, Home Depot parking lots, churches, schools, farms, and community hubs in places like Lake Worth Beach, Florida. Citizens and non-citizens alike were caught up in operations that blurred the line between targeted enforcement and dragnet policing. In Florida, the state attorney general continued to enforce a blocked immigration law until a federal judge held him in contempt. That episode showed how executive encouragement and local zeal could combine to push past judicial limits.\
As these raids intensified, the administration moved to narrow the eyes that could watch them. DHS and ICE issued guidance requiring 72 hours\'92 notice before congressional visits to detention facilities, despite statutes written to allow unannounced inspections. Lawmakers retained formal oversight authority, but their ability to see conditions as they were\'97rather than as prepared for inspection\'97was sharply reduced. In parallel, DHS canceled roughly 30,000 asylum appointments booked through the CBPOne app, stranding families who had followed official instructions and relied on lawful pathways to seek protection. The message was plain. Following the rules did not guarantee a hearing.\
The same system that closed doors for many opened them for a few. Trump announced exemptions from deportation for undocumented workers in agriculture and hospitality, sectors vital to donors and business allies. Commerce Secretary Howard Lutnick rolled out a waitlist for a \'93Trump Card\'94 residency program, offering permanent status to those able to pay $5 million. Together, these moves made explicit what had been implicit: immigration status could be a punishment for disfavored communities and a commodity for the wealthy. Courts did intervene at the margins\'97ordering restoration of legal services for families separated under prior policy, blocking a Harvard-specific student visa ban, and releasing a Palestinian activist whose detention appeared punitive\'97but these rulings functioned as case-by-case relief against a broader pattern of stratification.\
Beyond immigration, the presidency treated law and markets as pliable tools. Trump again extended by executive order the enforcement delay of the TikTok divestiture law, despite a statute and Supreme Court ruling that had set a clear deadline. In doing so, he asserted that his own judgment about timing could override both Congress and the Court in regulating a major platform. He also secured a golden-share arrangement giving him veto control over U.S. Steel\'92s board decisions, an unprecedented fusion of public authority and private corporate governance that raised obvious conflict-of-interest concerns. The line between state power and private gain thinned.\
Emergency language became a bridge between policy and profit. Trump ordered Michigan coal plants to remain open under a declared national energy emergency, overriding state climate law and long-planned closures. The Department of Energy was directed to keep those plants running, shifting costs and health risks onto ratepayers and local communities while protecting fossil-fuel owners. In California, a separate dispute over federalization of National Guard units showed how security powers could be pulled upward. A district judge rebuked the administration\'92s unilateral control, but the Ninth Circuit quickly stayed that ruling, leaving federal authority in place and signaling how fragile state control over its own forces had become.\
Federal power was also wielded against disfavored regions in more direct ways. Trump threatened to withhold wildfire disaster aid from California over political disputes, turning life-safety funding into a bargaining chip. At the same time, he staged a large military parade in Washington, D.C., tied to his birthday, and ordered the renaming of a Navy vessel that had honored Harvey Milk. The parade normalized leader-centered displays of force in civilian spaces. The renaming signaled ideological control over military symbols. Courts and Congress did not stand still in the face of these moves. Federal judges restored NIH and EPA grants that had been cut on discriminatory grounds, blocked mass firings at Education\'92s Office for Civil Rights, and refused to let DOJ represent Trump personally in the E. Jean Carroll defamation case. Lawmakers introduced war-powers resolutions to limit unauthorized action against Iran and a crypto-corruption bill to curb self-dealing. Yet these checks were scattered, reactive, and often narrow in scope.\
While power concentrated at the center, dissent surged in the streets. Millions joined \'93No Kings\'94 demonstrations across thousands of locations, protesting what they saw as Trump\'92s consolidation of authority. The protests were largely peaceful, organized around a simple demand for limits on executive power. State and local responses, however, often treated them as security threats. In Los Angeles, police declared unlawful assemblies, used teargas and projectiles, and imposed curfews. The tactics resembled riot control more than crowd management. They blurred the line between maintaining order and suppressing political expression.\
Elsewhere, officials\'92 words invited violence from below. In Florida, Governor Ron DeSantis stated that drivers could legally run over protesters if they felt threatened, framing vehicular attacks as potential self-defense. In Texas, credible threats tied to an anti-Trump rally forced evacuation of the state Capitol, disrupting legislative work. In Salt Lake City, a confrontation involving an armed individual and volunteer peacekeepers at a protest ended in a protester\'92s death, underscoring how the presence of firearms raised the stakes of any misstep or provocation. The right to assemble now carried a more visible risk.\
The most chilling event came in Minnesota, where a gunman assassinated a Democratic state lawmaker and wounded others. The attack was politically motivated, aimed at elected officials rather than random victims. Federal and state prosecutors responded with extensive charges, and the state\'92s congressional delegation issued a bipartisan statement condemning the violence as an attack on democracy itself. That response mattered. It reaffirmed, at least in words and indictments, that political disputes must not be settled by force. At the same time, civil society and local institutions found ways to resist the broader climate of fear: the Los Angeles Dodgers denied ICE agents access to their stadium parking lots, the NAACP broke with tradition by declining to invite Trump to its national convention, and journalists and legal observers sued DHS and Secretary Kristi Noem over alleged protest suppression.\
Information about these events did not circulate in a neutral environment. The administration and its allies worked to reshape both the channels and the content of public knowledge. At the media level, the Trump administration issued layoff notices to more than 600 employees at Voice of America and the U.S. Agency for Global Media, effectively dismantling much of the country\'92s independent international broadcasting capacity. Inside the Pentagon, a rapid response team used official social media accounts to attack reporters and critics, blurring the line between public information and partisan messaging. At the Social Security Administration, the White House pressured the commissioner not to contradict Trump\'92s false claims about scam calls, subordinating factual guidance to presidential narrative. Facts were expected to bend.\
Public health information came under similar strain. A senior CDC scientist responsible for hospitalization surveillance resigned, citing concerns about how vaccine data was being used. Former members of the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices warned that their firing and broader staffing cuts were undermining the vaccine program. By week\'92s end, the CDC had retracted $11.4 billion in Covid funding, fired key outbreak officials, and canceled a major H5N1 vaccine contract while imposing restrictive trial requirements. On paper, the agency continued to propose new data collections and surveillance systems. In practice, its capacity to generate and interpret that data was being hollowed out.\
The administration also moved to control the symbolic terrain of national memory. In the White House, Trump removed the Martin Luther King Jr. bust from the Oval Office and replaced Hillary Clinton\'92s official portrait with his own painting in a prominent display. At the Pentagon, officials ordered a \'93passive approach\'94 to Juneteenth messaging, instructing public affairs to avoid robust recognition of emancipation. The Navy stripped Harvey Milk\'92s name from a ship, erasing an LGBTQ rights pioneer from a visible place in military history. Beyond Washington, the administration illegally froze congressionally approved funds for libraries, archives, and museums, as later documented by the Government Accountability Office. These institutions preserve records and stories. Starving them of resources narrows what can be remembered.\
Disinformation and surveillance tied these strands together. After the Minnesota assassination, right-wing media figures and social-media influencers quickly spread false claims that the killer was a leftist \'93Marxist,\'94 blaming Democrats for the attack. Senator Mike Lee amplified those narratives, posting and then deleting inaccurate statements about the suspect\'92s ideology. The effect was to recast a right-leaning killer as a tool of the left, muddying public understanding of political violence and shifting blame away from the circles that had actually nurtured the attacker\'92s views. Confusion was not a side effect. It was the point.\
At the same time, Trump renewed his call for a special prosecutor to investigate the 2020 election, again framing it as riddled with fraud despite the absence of evidence and the passage of years. He demanded criminal inquiry into a settled result, keeping doubt alive and reinforcing the idea that disfavored votes are suspect. In the immigration realm, the State Department required foreign students and scholars to provide access to their social-media accounts for visa screening, with officials instructed to look for perceived hostility to the United States or its allies. Australian writer Alistair Kitchen was denied entry and deported after questioning about his protest coverage and political views. Together, these actions showed how the same state that distorted facts about violence and elections also monitored and punished dissenting speech, especially from those without full citizenship protections.\
Economic policy and enforcement moved in lockstep with these political priorities. In the crypto sector, the Securities and Exchange Commission dropped its civil lawsuit against Binance shortly after the exchange listed a Trump-linked token. The administration loosened cryptocurrency regulations more broadly and paused multiple fraud cases, signaling that ventures tied to allies would face a lighter touch. In environmental and gun regulation, EPA leadership directed staff in the Midwest to halt enforcement against fossil-fuel companies, while the Department of Justice planned to cut two-thirds of the staff inspecting federally licensed gun dealers. These choices weakened deterrence for powerful industries and shifted risk onto communities exposed to pollution and gun violence.\
At the same time, the administration and Congress used the Congressional Review Act to disapprove an OCC bank-merger review rule and an EPA air-quality rule, reshaping how financial consolidation and major emitters would be scrutinized. Trump\'92s golden-share control over U.S. Steel, the launch of Trump Mobile as a branded telecom venture, and the $5 million Trump Card residency program all pointed to a governing style in which public office opened private markets. Corporate behavior adjusted accordingly. Target rolled back diversity, equity, and inclusion initiatives after the inauguration. Amazon and Verizon withdrew support for Juneteenth celebrations and DEI programs, moves that were reportedly linked to regulatory bargaining. In West Virginia, the governor ended state support and paid-holiday status for Juneteenth. Recognition of emancipation and racial justice became something to be traded or withdrawn in pursuit of other advantages.\
Stratification by identity and status was not limited to economics. Legally, the week saw an attempted executive order to cancel birthright citizenship for children of undocumented immigrants, a direct challenge to constitutional guarantees of membership. The Supreme Court\'92s Skrmetti decision upheld Tennessee\'92s ban on gender-affirming care for minors, narrowing equal-protection interpretations and validating broad state restrictions on transgender youth healthcare. Symbolically, the Harvey Milk ship renaming and the halt of an LGBTQ-focused national suicide hotline signaled that certain lives and histories were less worthy of honor or support. The law and the symbols pointed in the same direction.\
Selective benefits reinforced this hierarchy. Undocumented workers in favored industries received de facto protection, while poorer migrants in Democratic cities faced intensified raids and canceled asylum appointments. Wealthy applicants could buy a path to residency. Foreign students and scholars were screened for their online views, with those deemed hostile excluded. Juneteenth and DEI retrenchment, combined with the removal of civil-rights symbols from the White House, narrowed the public space in which histories of slavery, resistance, and queer struggle could be told. Civil-rights organizations responded where they could: the NAACP\'92s decision not to invite Trump to its convention was a clear signal that, in its view, the administration\'92s policies and rhetoric fell outside the bounds of acceptable leadership.\
Against this backdrop, courts and Congress offered partial resistance. Federal judges not only restored NIH and EPA grants but also blocked Education\'92s civil-rights office purge, stopped the Harvard international student ban, and ordered the release of a Palestinian activist whose ICE detention appeared retaliatory. Judge Dana Sabraw enforced a settlement requiring legal services for families separated under earlier policies, reaffirming that the executive must honor its obligations. Another court refused to let DOJ shield Trump personally in the Carroll case, drawing a line between private misconduct and public office. These rulings did not reverse the tide. They did show that some guardrails still held.\
On the legislative side, Senator Jeff Merkley and colleagues introduced the End Crypto Corruption bill to bar officials from profiting from crypto ventures, while Democrats opened inquiries into Trump\'92s cryptocurrency dealings. War-powers resolutions from both chambers sought to reassert Congress\'92s role over potential action against Iran, and Senator Tammy Duckworth pressed the defense secretary on the costs and effectiveness of Red Sea operations. The Government Accountability Office\'92s finding that the administration had illegally frozen funds for libraries, archives, and museums documented an abuse of appropriations power, even if it did not immediately reverse the damage. Election administrators, meanwhile, continued the quiet work of democracy: the Election Assistance Commission sought data on local office staffing, and the FEC set filing dates for a special congressional election, even as it canceled an open meeting that would have offered more transparency.\
Culturally, Juneteenth and civil-rights commemoration became bargaining chips. West Virginia\'92s withdrawal of state support, corporate pullbacks from celebrations, and the Pentagon\'92s muted messaging all aligned with a broader anti-DEI politics. In the White House and the Navy, the removal of the MLK bust, the portrait swap, and the Harvey Milk renaming edited the visible story of who counts as a national hero. The illegal freezing of cultural and archival funds threatened the institutions that hold the deeper record. Each move could be defended in isolation as a budget choice, a decor decision, or a naming preference. Together, they marked a coordinated narrowing of which histories would be honored and which would be allowed to fade.\
No single event in Week 22 reset the Democracy Clock. The movement came from accumulation: immigration raids that doubled as partisan punishment, executive orders that treated statutes as suggestions, economic favors that blurred governance and enrichment, and symbolic edits that rewrote the civic script. Courts and lawmakers showed that resistance remained possible, but their actions were often reactive and limited to specific cases. Civil society mobilized in the streets and in institutions, yet faced a state increasingly willing to meet dissent with force, contempt, or silence.\
In that sense, the week deepened an existing pattern rather than inaugurating a new one. Emergency powers were treated as routine tools of energy and immigration policy. Law enforcement and security forces aligned more visibly with the preservation of executive authority than with the protection of vulnerable communities. Information and memory were curated to favor the regime\'92s narratives, while those who challenged them\'97journalists, activists, immigrants, even scientists\'97faced heightened risk. The formal architecture of democracy remained standing, but the lived experience of equal protection, open dissent, and shared truth grew more fragile.\
}