{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26 \cf0 In Week 24, the story is not of a sudden break but of a lock clicking into place. The core pattern is consolidation. A set of moves in Congress, the courts, and the executive branch did not so much change the direction of the country as confirm it. The \'93One Big Beautiful Bill\'94 moved from proposal to law. Immigration enforcement shifted from harsh to expansive and routine. The Supreme Court narrowed the reach of judges who might block presidential policy. Together these actions deepened a system in which wealth, loyalty, and status shape who is protected and who is exposed. The week\'92s events show a government that still holds elections and passes laws, but now uses those tools to harden inequality and widen the gap between the rulers and the ruled.\
\
At the close of Week 23, the Democracy Clock stood at 7:52 p.m. It remains at 7:52 p.m. at the end of Week 24. The hands did not move, but not because the week was quiet or benign. The clock held because the damage that mattered most this week was of a kind already built into the system. The megabill, the court rulings, and the enforcement campaigns all pushed further along tracks laid in earlier weeks. They raised the presence of traits like executive power without oversight, law used as a weapon, and policy driven by money, but they did so by deepening patterns already in place rather than crossing a new threshold. In that sense, Week 24 is less an inflection point than a confirmation. The regime has chosen its model and is now building it out in statute, doctrine, and practice.\
\
The central development of the week was the journey of Trump\'92s \'93One Big Beautiful Bill\'94 from Senate floor to presidential signature. In the Senate, Republicans bypassed the parliamentarian, adopted a \'93current policy baseline\'94 that treated trillions in tax cuts as costless, and used reconciliation to avoid the filibuster. The bill extended and expanded the 2017 tax cuts, heavily favoring high earners and corporations, while cutting deeply into Medicaid, SNAP, and other low\uc0\u8209 income programs. The Congressional Budget Office projected at least $3.3 trillion in added debt over a decade, with some estimates higher. Senators like Thom Tillis and Rand Paul broke ranks, warning of the bill\'92s impact on Medicaid and the deficit, and Tillis chose not to seek reelection after Trump threatened to back a primary challenger. Yet the bill passed the Senate on a 50\'9650 vote, with Vice President JD Vance breaking the tie. In that chamber, legislative power bent toward the executive\'92s fiscal and ideological priorities, and internal dissenters paid a price.\
\
In the House, the bill\'92s path showed how a legislature can still function procedurally while losing much of its independence. Republican leaders held procedural votes open for hours, hunted down wavering members, and leaned on Trump\'92s threats of primary challenges and promises of future executive orders to fix unpopular provisions. The House Freedom Caucus, which had criticized the bill\'92s deficits, reversed course after a meeting with Trump in which he urged them not to \'93give Democrats a win.\'94 Representative Ralph Norman said he backed the bill after Trump assured him that disliked parts would be undone later by executive order, an admission that blurred the line between lawmaking and presidential fiat. Democratic leader Hakeem Jeffries spoke for more than eight hours in a record\uc0\u8209 breaking floor speech to delay the vote and lay out the bill\'92s human costs. In the end, the House adopted the Senate version without amendments. Two Republicans, Thomas Massie and Brian Fitzpatrick, voted no. The final House vote was narrow\'97218\'96214 or 219\'96213 in different accounts\'97but enough. Congress had acted, yet the pattern of action showed a body that performs debate while delivering what the president demands.\
\
When Trump signed the bill on July 4, the policy shift became structural. The law permanently extends tax cuts that favor capital over labor, adds new deductions pitched to working\uc0\u8209 class voters, and raises the debt ceiling by $5 trillion. At the same time, it cuts $930 billion from Medicaid, slashes SNAP by $186 billion, and imposes strict work requirements and provider\u8209 tax limits that will push millions off health insurance and food assistance. Planned Parenthood is barred from Medicaid funding for at least a year, threatening the closure of up to 200 clinics and cutting care for more than a million patients. Enhanced Affordable Care Act subsidies are allowed to lapse, and Medicare faces automatic cuts of over $500 billion, including the termination of coverage for some legal immigrants who have paid into the system. Clean energy tax credits are phased out, while new taxes and lost depreciation fall on solar, wind, nuclear, geothermal, and storage projects, risking the cancellation of hundreds of gigawatts of planned capacity. The law thus codifies a transfer: public risk and austerity for the poor and sick, tax relief and new contracts for the wealthy and for enforcement and defense industries.\
\
The spending side of the bill reveals the regime\'92s priorities even more starkly. The law allocates roughly $170 billion for immigration and border operations, including $45 billion for new immigration jails and $50 billion for border wall construction. ICE\'92s detention budget grows by 265 percent, giving it more money for jails than the Federal Bureau of Prisons and more agents than the FBI. Funds flow to a \'93Golden Dome\'94 missile defense system and other defense projects that critics call ineffective but lucrative for contractors, pushing annual military spending over $1 trillion. At the same time, the Federal Communications Commission suspends a rule that would have capped prison phone call prices, citing \'93financial burdens\'94 on prison operators and accepting industry claims that cheaper calls would threaten security. The suspension keeps the cost of a 15\uc0\u8209 minute call as high as $11.35 instead of $0.90, preserving kickbacks to facilities and profits for telecom firms. In these choices, public goods\'97health care, food, communication\'97are treated as fields for private gain, while coercive capacity is treated as a core state function worthy of lavish support.\
\
The bill\'92s passage and signing also show how policy is now driven by elite lobbying and money. Fossil fuel interests gain a new production tax credit for metallurgical coal, even as clean energy is taxed and stripped of support. Defense contractors stand to benefit from new weapons and systems. Private prison and detention companies, along with construction and security firms, are poised to profit from the explosion of immigration jails and border infrastructure. A Paramount settlement that pays Trump $16 million over a \'9360 Minutes\'94 interview, and Senator Elizabeth Warren\'92s call to investigate it as possible \'93bribery in plain sight,\'94 sits in the background as a sign of how media and corporate actors may seek to buy peace with political power. The launch of \'93Trump Fragrances,\'94 a $249 perfume line, and threats to cut subsidies for Elon Musk\'92s companies after he criticizes the bill underline how the boundary between public office and private enrichment has thinned. Crony capitalism is not an accident of this system. It is one of its operating principles.\
\
While Congress was reshaping the fiscal and social order, the courts were redrawing the limits of executive power and citizenship. The Supreme Court issued a 6\'963 ruling that lower courts cannot impose nationwide injunctions blocking federal policies. In the context of Trump\'92s executive order limiting birthright citizenship, the Court allowed partial enforcement of a measure that denies citizenship to U.S.\uc0\u8209 born children of non\u8209 citizen, non\u8209 green\u8209 card parents, while refusing to rule on the order\'92s constitutionality. In a related case, Trump v. CASA, the Court curtailed federal judges\'92 ability to issue nationwide relief, signaling that challenges to federal policy should be confined to the parties and jurisdictions before them. Another decision cleared the way for the deportation of eight men from a U.S. base in Djibouti to South Sudan, despite claims they could face torture or persecution, narrowing the scope of judicial protection for noncitizens. Taken together with an earlier ruling granting presidents \'93absolute immunity\'94 for official acts, these decisions move law from being a limit on power toward being a tool in its hands.\
\
Not all judicial developments ran in one direction. A federal judge blocked Trump\'92s January asylum ban, ruling that his proclamation of an \'93invasion\'94 at the southern border exceeded presidential authority under the Immigration and Nationality Act and the Constitution. Another judge temporarily halted the administration\'92s attempt to fire large numbers of Health and Human Services employees, calling the move \'93arbitrary and capricious.\'94 Courts in Florida and elsewhere ordered that certain detainees remain in custody to prevent immediate deportation, or blocked the termination of Temporary Protected Status for up to 500,000 Haitians. Sixteen Democratic attorneys general sued over the administration\'92s decision to cut more than $1 billion in school\uc0\u8209 based mental health funds, and twenty states sued over the sharing of Medicaid data with Homeland Security for immigration enforcement, alleging violations of privacy law. These cases show that parts of the judiciary still resist, but they do so within a shrinking field, as Supreme Court doctrine and executive practice narrow the tools available to them.\
\
Immigration enforcement, already central to Trump\'92s second term, took on a more expansive and punitive cast in Week 24. The opening of the \'93Alligator Alcatraz\'94 detention center in the Florida Everglades, with an initial capacity of 1,000 detainees and plans to expand to 5,000, symbolized this shift. The facility, backed by Trump and Governor Ron DeSantis and funded in part by FEMA, is built on fragile wetlands and designed for harsh conditions. Environmental groups sued to halt its construction, arguing that required environmental studies were skipped, while protesters denounced the project as both cruel and ecologically reckless. When five Democratic lawmakers attempted to inspect the site, state and local authorities blocked their entry. The denial of access to elected officials, even as federal funds flow into the complex, shows how oversight is being treated as a privilege granted to allies, not a right of office.\
\
Beyond Florida, ICE and allied agencies carried out raids and detentions that underscored the human cost of the enforcement model. A 64\uc0\u8209 year\u8209 old Iranian woman, Donna Kashanian, who had lived in the United States since 1978 and had no criminal record, was seized in her yard in New Orleans and taken to a detention center. A Cuban man in his seventies died in ICE custody, the thirteenth such death in the fiscal year, amid reports of overcrowding and lack of basic care. A stateless Palestinian woman, Ward Sakeik, was twice nearly deported in defiance of a federal judge\'92s order before finally being released after four months in detention. A journalist, Mario Guevara, was arrested while covering a protest and held by ICE before an immigration judge granted him bond. A photographer in Los Angeles, Job Garcia, was tackled and detained for more than 24 hours while filming an ICE raid at a Home Depot; he later filed a claim for damages, alleging unlawful arrest. These cases show a system in which the line between citizen and noncitizen, between observer and target, has blurred, and in which the machinery of detention and deportation operates with limited regard for judicial orders or public scrutiny.\
\
The administration\'92s approach to citizenship itself hardened. The Justice Department issued a memo directing attorneys to prioritize denaturalization proceedings against naturalized citizens who commit certain crimes, using civil cases in which defendants have no right to counsel and face a lower burden of proof. Trump\'92s Justice Department also sued Los Angeles over its sanctuary policies, seeking to block local limits on cooperation with federal immigration authorities. At an immigration roundtable in Florida, Trump mused that perhaps even U.S.\uc0\u8209 born citizens who commit crimes should be deported, saying, \'93Many of them were born in our country. I think we ought to get them the hell out of here, too.\'94 Combined with the birthright citizenship order and the Supreme Court\'92s narrowing of nationwide injunctions, these moves sketch a tiered system in which citizenship is less a stable status than a conditional grant, more secure for some groups than for others.\
\
Law enforcement and security institutions were also used against political opponents and oversight figures. A Wisconsin judge, Hannah Dugan, was arrested by FBI agents in her courtroom and charged with obstruction after she allegedly allowed a man to leave to avoid arrest by immigration officers; the FBI director commented publicly on the case, and altered images of the judge circulated online. Newark\'92s mayor, Ras Baraka, was arrested by ICE agents while inspecting a private detention facility with members of Congress. New York City\'92s comptroller, Brad Lander, was arrested outside an immigration court while asking to see a judicial warrant. Senator Alex Padilla was detained by Secret Service and FBI agents when he tried to question the Homeland Security Secretary about protests in Los Angeles, after DHS falsely claimed he had failed to identify himself. Representative LaMonica McIver faced charges after a confrontation at an ICE facility. In each instance, officials engaged in oversight or protest were treated as subjects of enforcement, not as coequal actors in a constitutional system.\
\
At the same time, Trump and his allies used rhetoric and threat to chill opposition. He warned that New York City mayoral candidate Zohran Mamdani must \'93do the right thing\'94 or the city would face financial punishment, and suggested he might arrest Mamdani, a naturalized citizen, if he did not cooperate with ICE. The White House press secretary called Mamdani a \'93communist\'94 and falsely accused him of antisemitism. Trump suggested he might deport Elon Musk, a naturalized billionaire critic, and threatened to cut subsidies to Musk\'92s companies. He called for investigations into Homeland Security Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas and continued to attack local and state officials who resisted his immigration policies. These threats did not yet translate into formal charges in every case, but they sent a clear signal. Political opposition, especially from immigrants or their descendants, carries personal risk.\
\
Information and knowledge institutions came under pressure as well. Homeland Security Secretary Kristi Noem and Border Czar Tom Homan publicly urged the Justice Department to investigate CNN for its reporting on the ICEBlock app, which alerts users to nearby ICE agents, and for its coverage of U.S. strikes on Iran. The administration threatened to prosecute the network, framing its reporting as encouragement to evade law enforcement. At the same time, the administration shut down the U.S. Global Change Research Program\'92s climate website, cutting off public access to federal climate reports and data. Robert F. Kennedy Jr., as Health and Human Services Secretary, exercised direct control over the CDC in the absence of a director, firing 17 independent vaccine advisers and replacing them with less experienced figures who promptly voted to ban a preservative from some flu vaccines, a move that could limit supply. Over 600 EPA employees and scientists signed a declaration warning that agency policies under Trump were undermining its mission to protect human health and the environment, even as the EPA\'92s research arm faced deep cuts and a new program offered the public the chance to adopt lab animals from a downsized facility.\
\
Higher education and civil rights in schools were drawn into the same orbit. The administration withheld nearly $7 billion in legally appropriated K\'9612 funds, including money for after\uc0\u8209 school programs and English\u8209 language learning, claiming the spending was unconstitutional. It sent a letter to Harvard accusing the university of violating the Civil Rights Act by failing to address antisemitism and threatening to withdraw federal funding. The University of Pennsylvania, under an agreement with the administration, announced guidelines barring trans athletes from women\'92s sports and erased the records of swimmer Lia Thomas. The Supreme Court ruled that parents in a Maryland county could opt their children out of lessons featuring LGBTQ+ themes on religious grounds, and agreed to hear appeals from Idaho and West Virginia defending bans on trans students in female sports. These moves do not abolish public education or civil rights law, but they hollow out civic education and inclusion, making space for ideological comfort and political pressure at the expense of equal treatment.\
\
Even as the administration cut and pressured, it also created new symbols. Trump issued executive orders establishing a \'93Make America Beautiful Again\'94 commission and directing the Interior Department to improve national parks, raise fees for foreign visitors, and review diversity initiatives. These orders, framed as conservation and patriotism, sat alongside deep cuts to the National Weather Service that forced some offices to end round\uc0\u8209 the\u8209 clock operations, reduced weather balloon launches, and impaired severe weather forecasting. They also coincided with the shutdown of the climate website and the weakening of environmental review in California\'92s housing reforms. The contrast is sharp. On paper, the government speaks of beauty and access to nature. In practice, it reduces the capacity of scientific and regulatory bodies to protect people from storms, pollution, and climate change.\
\
The week\'92s foreign policy and civil\uc0\u8209 military actions added another layer to the picture of concentrated, personalized power. Trump boasted that he had ordered massive strikes on Iranian nuclear facilities, using more than 125 aircraft and bunker\u8209 busting bombs, and later admitted he had given Iran permission to bomb a U.S. air base in Qatar in retaliation. The Pentagon claimed the strikes had set back Iran\'92s program by one to two years, while intelligence reports suggested only a few months. Iran suspended cooperation with international nuclear inspectors. At the same time, the administration paused some military aid and ammunition shipments to Ukraine without notifying Kyiv or NATO allies, undermining earlier commitments. It pressured Israel to delay or cancel Prime Minister Netanyahu\'92s corruption trial by threatening to withhold U.S. aid, and an Israeli court postponed or canceled hearings on \'93classified\'94 grounds. The U.S. mission to the United Nations called for the removal of a special rapporteur on Palestine, warning of \'93significant actions\'94 if she remained. These moves show a commander\u8209 in\u8209 chief willing to trade military support, legal process, and diplomatic norms for personal and political ends.\
\
Within the justice system, appointments and regulatory decisions further blurred the line between neutral administration and partisan instrument. The Justice Department\'92s \'93weaponization working group\'94 took advice from a former January 6 defendant, signaling that those once prosecuted for attacking the Capitol could now help shape how the department pursues alleged abuses of power. Trump\'92s nominee to lead the Office of Special Counsel, Paul Ingrassia, had spread conspiracy theories about 9/11 and defended figures like Alex Jones, raising doubts about his commitment to factual oversight of the civil service. The Labor Department announced plans to roll back more than 60 worker protection rules, including those on minimum wage, overtime for home health aides, and anti\uc0\u8209 discrimination requirements for apprenticeships. The FCC\'92s suspension of prison phone price caps, justified by the financial needs of prison operators and telecom firms, kept in place a system that extracts money from some of the poorest families in the country. In each case, institutions meant to protect the public or the integrity of government were steered toward the interests of donors, contractors, and loyalists.\
\
There were, amid this consolidation, acts of resistance and civic engagement. Sixteen Democratic attorneys general sued over the loss of school mental health funds. Twenty states challenged the sharing of Medicaid data with immigration authorities. Environmental groups went to court to stop the Alligator Alcatraz project. A federal judge blocked mass firings at HHS and the termination of Haitians\'92 Temporary Protected Status. A coalition of attorneys general sued over the use of Medicaid data for deportations. Representative Brian Fitzpatrick voted against the budget bill and warned Trump about the dangers of withholding aid to Ukraine, while his constituents staged a die\uc0\u8209 in at his office to protest healthcare cuts. Journalists and lawyers fought to free detainees like Mario Guevara and Ward Sakeik. These actions did not reverse the week\'92s main currents, but they show that the system still contains actors willing to use the tools that remain.\
\
Looking ahead from Week 24, several processes are already in motion. The Supreme Court has agreed to hear cases on coordinated campaign spending and transgender sports bans in its next term, with potential to further reshape campaign finance and civil rights. The Election Assistance Commission has scheduled a public meeting on voting system certification, a small but important piece of election infrastructure. The administration\'92s withholding of school funds and threats to Harvard set up likely legal challenges over education and civil rights. The lawsuits over Medicaid data sharing, school mental health funds, and the Alligator Alcatraz detention center will test how far lower courts can still go in checking executive and state power under the new Supreme Court doctrine. The Labor Department\'92s deregulation agenda and the FCC\'92s prison phone decisions will move through rulemaking and litigation. These are not speculative risks. They are live processes that will shape the terrain on which democracy must operate in coming weeks and months.\
\
By the end of Week 24, then, the Democracy Clock still reads 7:52 p.m. The hour did not advance, but the room grew more crowded with structures that are hard to dismantle. The tax code is now more firmly tilted toward capital. The safety net is thinner and more conditional. Immigration enforcement is richer, larger, and more insulated from oversight. Courts at the top have narrowed the tools available to those who would challenge presidential overreach, even as some judges below continue to resist. Agencies that once served as buffers\'97CDC, EPA, FCC, Labor\'97are more closely aligned with the president\'92s political and economic allies. Citizenship and rights are more clearly stratified by wealth, origin, and ideology. This week matters not because it introduced a new kind of danger, but because it made the existing dangers more durable. It shows how, in a formal democracy, law, budget, and appointment can be used to build an unequal order that is hard to unwind. The clock\'92s stillness is not a sign of safety. It is a reminder that once certain lines are crossed, the work of power is to make them feel normal.}