{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 .SFNS-Regular;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue-Bold;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 .SFNS-RegularItalic;
\f3\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f4\fnil\fcharset0 EBGaramond-Regular;\f5\fnil\fcharset0 .SFNS-Semibold;
\f6\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red14\green14\blue14;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c6700\c6700\c6700;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf2 Below is a 
\f1\b full, polished, book-ready chapter
\f0\b0  in the tone of 
\f2\i \cf2 The Republic Is Ours
\f0\i0 \cf2 , positioned in Appendix A after The Accountability Method, The Ten Questions, and Making Democracy Visible.\
It assumes the reader now understands the system, the stakes, and their power\'97now they learn how to 
\f2\i \cf2 use
\f0\i0 \cf2  their voice with skill.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f4 \cf0 \uc0\u11835 
\f3 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs44 \cf2 Scripts, Letters, Questions, Checklists
\f0\b0\fs28 \cf2 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs30 \cf2 How to Speak in Your Own Voice and Be Heard
\f0\b0\fs28 \cf2 \
\
Every democracy depends on people who know how to speak for themselves. Not by memorising a set of official lines, not by repeating a party slogan, and not by waiting for someone else to author their convictions\'97but by learning how to turn their concerns into words with clarity, confidence, and effect.\
\
This chapter is not a catalogue of scripts. It is a toolbox for learning how to make them.\
\
Scripts are useful because they lower the friction of acting. They give you a starting point, a structure, a sense of what belongs and what does not. But the most powerful political message is never the one read from a template. It is the one that sounds like the sender\'97their vocabulary, their experience, their tone, their stakes.\
\
The purpose here is to help you build that power for yourself.\
\
The examples that follow\'97letters, questions, checklists, and short scripts\'97are not rules. They are scaffolding. Use what serves you. Adapt what doesn\'92t. Replace anything with your own phrasing. The goal is not uniformity; it is capability. A republic becomes stronger when more people understand how to shape words into tools.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f4 \cf0 \uc0\u11835 
\f3 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf2 \

\f5\b\fs34 1. What a Script Really Is
\f0\b0\fs28 \
\
A script is simply a message with a job to do.\
\
Every script\'97whether it\'92s an email to a representative, a question for a candidate, or a call to a newsroom\'97has just three essential elements:\
\pard\tqr\tx260\tx420\li420\fi-420\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f6 \cf2 	1.	
\f1\b A clear purpose
\f0\b0  (what you want)\

\f6 	2.	
\f1\b A clear reason
\f0\b0  (why it matters)\

\f6 	3.	
\f1\b A clear request
\f0\b0  (what you need the recipient to do)\
\
The rest is ornament.\
If you get these three right, the message will land.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f4 \cf0 \uc0\u11835 
\f3 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf2 \

\f5\b\fs34 2. How to Build Your Own Script (The Four-Part Method)
\f0\b0\fs28 \
\
You can build almost any effective script by following this short process:\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs30 \cf2 1. Start with the goal.
\f0\b0\fs28 \cf2 \
\
What is the specific action or answer you want? Begin there; write it down plainly.\
\

\f5\b\fs30 \cf2 2. Add the \'93why.\'94
\f0\b0\fs28 \cf2 \
\
One or two sentences explaining the stakes\'97not the entire history, not the full argument. The essential point.\
\

\f5\b\fs30 \cf2 3. Add your connection.
\f0\b0\fs28 \cf2 \
\
A personal detail, a local angle, or a direct impact. This grounds the message in the real world.\
\

\f5\b\fs30 \cf2 4. End with a direct request.
\f0\b0\fs28 \cf2 \
\
No hedging, no apologies. Clear, simple, doable.\
\
Put these four lines together and you already have a script\'97one written in your own voice, not anyone else\'92s.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f4 \cf0 \uc0\u11835 
\f3 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf2 \

\f5\b\fs34 3. How to Adapt Scripts from Anywhere (\'93Steal Smart\'94)
\f0\b0\fs28 \
\
Good organisers don\'92t reinvent the wheel.\
They adapt what works.\
\
You are encouraged\'97strongly\'97to borrow scripts from this book, from organisations you trust, from local groups, or from national campaigns. But there is a right and a wrong way to do it.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs30 \cf2 The wrong way: copy and paste without reading.
\f0\b0\fs28 \cf2 \
\
It produces generic messages and signals low engagement.\
\

\f5\b\fs30 \cf2 The right way:
\f0\b0\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	Replace unfamiliar language with your own.\
	\'95	Shorten anything that sounds like a lecture.\
	\'95	Adjust tone to fit the recipient.\
	\'95	Add one sentence that reflects your experience or your district.\
\
When you \'93steal smart,\'94 the script becomes 
\f2\i yours
\f0\i0 , not a mass-produced item.\
And people\'97especially public officials\'97can tell the difference.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f4 \cf0 \uc0\u11835 
\f3 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf2 \

\f5\b\fs34 4. How to Right-Size Tone
\f0\b0\fs28 \
\
Tone determines whether your message connects, alienates, or disappears into the noise.\
\
Here are simple guidelines:\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs30 \cf2 When writing to a representative:
\f0\b0\fs28 \cf2 \
\
Be firm, respectful, and direct.\
They work for you\'97but you don\'92t need to shout for them to hear you.\
\

\f5\b\fs30 \cf2 When speaking to a candidate:
\f0\b0\fs28 \cf2 \
\
Be curious and demanding at once.\
Candidates expect scrutiny. Give it.\
\

\f5\b\fs30 \cf2 When writing to a newsroom or journalist:
\f0\b0\fs28 \cf2 \
\
Be concise, factual, and polite.\
Signal that you are offering something useful, not venting.\
\

\f5\b\fs30 \cf2 When organising neighbours:
\f0\b0\fs28 \cf2 \
\
Be inviting, practical, and encouraging.\
People say yes to things that feel possible, not overwhelming.\
\

\f5\b\fs30 \cf2 When confronting disinformation:
\f0\b0\fs28 \cf2 \
\
Be calm, specific, and brief.\
Do not argue every point; correct what matters.\
\
Tone is not decoration.\
Tone 
\f2\i \cf2 is
\f0\i0 \cf2  strategy.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f4 \cf0 \uc0\u11835 
\f3 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf2 \

\f5\b\fs34 5. Templates and Examples
\f0\b0\fs28 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\i \cf2 (Use, adapt, remix, steal smart.)
\f0\i0 \cf2 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs30 \cf2 A. Short Email to a Representative
\f0\b0\fs28 \cf2 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf2 Subject:
\f0\b0  Protecting the independence of our elections\
\
\pard\tx860\tx1420\tx1980\tx2540\tx3100\tx3660\tx4220\tx4780\tx5340\tx5900\tx6460\tx7020\li300\sl324\slmult1\partightenfactor0
\cf2 I\'92m writing to ask you to oppose any bill that weakens local election administration or limits ballot access.\
Our community depends on a system that is fair, transparent, and accessible, regardless of party.\
As your constituent, I am asking you to publicly commit to protecting nonpartisan election officials and to oppose any legislation that undermines their work.\
Please confirm how you intend to vote.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f4 \cf0 \uc0\u11835 
\f3 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs30 \cf2 B. Question for a Candidate at a Forum
\f0\b0\fs28 \cf2 \
\
\pard\tx860\tx1420\tx1980\tx2540\tx3100\tx3660\tx4220\tx4780\tx5340\tx5900\tx6460\tx7020\li300\sl324\slmult1\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \'93If elected, will you commit to voting only for bills that strengthen equal access to the ballot\'97and will you oppose any effort to concentrate power in the executive branch? What specific actions will you take in your first six months?\'94\
\
Short, precise, and impossible to dodge without revealing intention.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f4 \cf0 \uc0\u11835 
\f3 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs30 \cf2 C. Message to a Local Journalist
\f0\b0\fs28 \cf2 \
\
\pard\tx860\tx1420\tx1980\tx2540\tx3100\tx3660\tx4220\tx4780\tx5340\tx5900\tx6460\tx7020\li300\sl324\slmult1\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \'93I\'92m a constituent in District 12 and wanted to flag something for possible coverage. Our county board is considering a change to polling locations that may disproportionately affect low-income voters. Here are the details and sources. If you would like community voices for your reporting, I\'92m happy to connect you with local groups.\'94\
\
Journalists need leads, not essays.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f4 \cf0 \uc0\u11835 
\f3 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs30 \cf2 D. Neighbourhood Invitation
\f0\b0\fs28 \cf2 \
\
\pard\tx860\tx1420\tx1980\tx2540\tx3100\tx3660\tx4220\tx4780\tx5340\tx5900\tx6460\tx7020\li300\sl324\slmult1\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \'93A few of us are meeting next Tuesday to learn what\'92s on the ballot for 2026 and how the new district lines affect our neighbourhood. It\'92s informal, one hour, all welcome. If you\'92re curious or concerned about how our vote works, join us.\'94\
\
No pressure.\
No jargon.\
Clear purpose.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f4 \cf0 \uc0\u11835 
\f3 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf2 \

\f5\b\fs34 6. Universal Checklists
\f0\b0\fs28 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs30 \cf2 Before sending any message:
\f0\b0\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f1\b Is the goal clear?
\f0\b0 \
	\'95	
\f1\b Is the request specific?
\f0\b0 \
	\'95	
\f1\b Is the tone calibrated for the audience?
\f0\b0 \
	\'95	
\f1\b Is it short enough to be read in under 30 seconds?
\f0\b0 \
	\'95	
\f1\b Does it sound like you?
\f0\b0 \
	\'95	
\f1\b Would you want to receive this message?
\f0\b0 \
\
If the answer to all six is yes, the script is ready.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f4 \cf0 \uc0\u11835 
\f3 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf2 \

\f5\b\fs34 7. Why This Matters
\f0\b0\fs28 \
\
Most people underestimate the power of a well-written, well-directed message.\
But officials track constituent letters.\
Journalists respond to clarity.\
Candidates adjust based on the questions they hear most often.\
Local groups grow when someone makes the invitation feel human.\
\
Every one of those changes is a democratic action.\
\
Your words\'97crafted, refined, and delivered with intention\'97can shape the behaviour of institutions. You don\'92t need to be loud to be influential. You need to be clear.\
\
The tools in this chapter are here to help you do exactly that.\
\
Use them.\
Adapt them.\
Improve them.\
Share them.\
\
And when you find or create a better script than anything in this book, pass it on.\
That is how democracies become stronger: when citizens learn the craft of speaking in their own voice and teach it to others.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f4 \cf0 \uc0\u11835 
\f3 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf2 \
If you\'92d like, I can now generate:\
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	A companion 
\f1\b \'93Quick Reference Sheet\'94
\f0\b0 \
	\'95	A set of 
\f1\b fillable templates
\f0\b0  for Scrivener\
	\'95	A 
\f1\b Condensed Half-Page Version
\f0\b0  for the Action Toolkit\
	\'95	A matched 
\f1\b Candidate Version
\f0\b0 \
\
Just tell me what you want next.}