{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26 \cf0 By Week 33, the pattern of the term had come into sharp relief. Power was no longer only gathered in the executive; it was being hardened, branded, and rehearsed in public view. Immigration, public health, and the military became the main stages on which this new order was acted out. Courts, states, and fragments of Congress still pushed back, but they did so against a government that now spoke openly of needing \'93authoritarian powers\'94 and that treated constraint as a problem to be solved, not a principle to be honored. The week\'92s events showed a system in which law, force, and information were being bent toward the same end: to make resistance costlier and executive will more automatic.\
\
On the Democracy Clock, last week ended at 7:58 p.m. It ends there again now, though the underlying minutes slipped by a fraction, from 478.0 to 477.9. The public time did not move, but the machinery behind it did. The small net change reflects a week in which authoritarian traits strengthened across many domains\'97civil service politicization, militarized policing, voter suppression, and curated memory\'97while a handful of court rulings and state actions held some lines. Federal judges struck down emergency tariffs and blocked, at least for now, the use of the Alien Enemies Act and the military in Los Angeles. A court ordered Harvard\'92s retaliatory grant cuts reversed. Governors and mayors in blue jurisdictions sued, resisted, and improvised workarounds. These acts did not reverse the drift. They slowed it just enough that the clock\'92s face stayed fixed while the gears inside ground forward.\
\
The most visible change of the week came in the language of war. On September 5, Donald Trump signed an executive order rebranding the Department of Defense as the \'93Department of War,\'94 reviving a name last used in 1947 and directing the bureaucracy to adopt it in communications and titles. The Pentagon\'92s website began redirecting to war.gov. A companion order instructed the secretary to map the steps needed for a permanent statutory change. This was framed as a return to candor and strength, but its deeper meaning lay in what it normalized: a government that speaks of itself first as a war-making power, at the very moment it is deploying troops in American cities and ordering lethal strikes abroad without clear authorization. The name change was formally symbolic, yet it shifted the emotional center of the state toward conflict and away from defense of a civic whole.\
\
That symbolism was not idle. In the Caribbean, the U.S. military destroyed a boat said to be carrying drugs and members of a Venezuelan gang, killing eleven people. The strike took place in international waters and was justified as a deterrent to traffickers. It was also ordered without congressional approval or a clear legal theory beyond a broad reading of executive power in a self-declared national emergency. Legal experts and members of Congress questioned its constitutionality. Representative Adam Smith, the senior Democrat on the House Armed Services Committee, demanded to know under what authority the president had acted. The administration\'92s answer was not to narrow its claim but to double down, with Trump insisting that he needed more \'93authoritarian powers\'94 to restore prosperity and security. War, in this frame, was not an exception. It was a governing method.\
\
The same week, the military footprint inside the United States thickened. National Guard troops, already deployed in Washington, D.C., were kept on extended orders through December. In the capital, residents reported armed Guard soldiers, ICE agents, and FBI personnel patrolling neighborhoods, profiling and arresting people, including children. The deployment was justified as a response to crime and homelessness, but its effect was to place federal uniforms between local communities and their own government. In Los Angeles, a federal judge ruled that Trump\'92s earlier use of Marines and Guard units for immigration protests violated the Posse Comitatus Act and the constitutional line between military and police. The order barred such deployments, warning against the creation of a national police force under presidential control. Yet even here, an appeals court quickly stayed parts of the ruling while the administration appealed, allowing some operations to continue. The law spoke, but it did not yet command.\
\
Chicago became the next test case. The administration threatened to send federal law enforcement and National Guard troops into the city as part of an immigration crackdown, framing it as a response to violence and disorder. An advance team of agents began training at a nearby Navy base, which the Pentagon approved as a hub for the operation. Illinois\'92s governor and Chicago\'92s mayor denounced the plan as an occupation and a political stunt. In response, the mayor signed an executive order directing city police not to cooperate with federal immigration enforcement, banning them from participating in patrols, checkpoints, or traffic stops aimed at civil immigration violations. The order also forbade officers from hiding their identities behind masks, a practice associated with federal ICE teams. Here, local authority was used to draw a line around residents\'92 rights, even as the federal government prepared to cross it.\
\
Washington, D.C. offered a different kind of accommodation. Facing a federal takeover of law enforcement and the looming expiration of an emergency declaration, Mayor Muriel Bowser signed an order to formalize cooperation with federal forces. The \'93Safe and Beautiful Emergency Operations Center\'94 she created set rules for federal officers\'97clear agency markings, proper identification during arrests, and some transparency requirements. The order was meant to provide a path out of the emergency, but it also accepted the federalized policing as a fact on the ground. At the same time, the city\'92s attorney general filed suit against the administration, arguing that the deployment of more than 2,200 troops violated the Home Rule Act and the Constitution. The capital thus became a microcosm of the week: legal resistance on paper, negotiated coexistence in practice, and soldiers in the streets.\
\
Immigration enforcement was the field where these tendencies converged most starkly. The Department of Homeland Security launched a drive to hire 10,000 new ICE officers and 3,000 CBP agents, backed by $170 billion in funding. Age limits were lowered, training periods shortened, and large signing bonuses offered. ICE began poaching local deputies and officers, prompting protests from sheriffs who otherwise supported the deportation agenda. DHS sweetened the offer by promising to reimburse local agencies for the salaries of officers who joined federal programs and by offering performance-based bonuses. At the same time, USCIS, historically a service agency, announced that it would add law enforcement agents empowered to make arrests and execute warrants. The line between civil administration and armed enforcement blurred, and the federal government built what critics described as a \'93private army\'94 for immigration.\
\
The tools given to that army grew more intrusive. The administration reinstated a contract with Paragon, an Israeli firm, to provide ICE with Graphite spyware capable of hacking phones and reading encrypted messages. The contract had been paused under the previous administration over civil liberties concerns. Now it moved forward, giving immigration agents the power to penetrate the digital lives of targets, including activists and journalists, with little public oversight. In the courts, DHS lawyers pursued a strategy of appealing every bond decision in immigration cases and automatically staying judges\'92 orders, effectively holding people without bail even when an immigration judge had granted release. A new policy required parents seeking to reunite with unaccompanied children to submit to identification checks that sometimes led to their own arrest. Together, these moves built a rights-light zone around non-citizens, where surveillance was deep, detention was prolonged, and legal victories could be nullified by procedural maneuvers.\
\
The human stakes of this system were visible in several cases. In the early hours of August 31, the administration attempted to deport up to 600 unaccompanied children from federal custody to Guatemala, despite statutory protections for such minors. Advocates rushed to court, and a federal judge issued an emergency order halting the flights and requiring the children\'92s return to the Office of Refugee Resettlement. Some children were already on planes when the order came down. By noon the next day, they were back in U.S. custody. In another case, a federal judge temporarily blocked the deportation of about 600 Guatemalan children, again checking the administration\'92s push for rapid removals. These rulings showed that the law still offered refuge, but only when lawyers could reach a judge in time and only for those whose cases drew attention.\
\
Elsewhere, the courts narrowed the administration\'92s reach. The Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals issued an injunction blocking Trump\'92s use of the Alien Enemies Act to deport Venezuelans accused of gang ties, finding no invasion or \'93predatory incursion\'94 that would justify wartime powers. A separate appeals court in Washington, D.C. ruled that Trump\'92s sweeping tariffs, imposed under emergency economic statutes, exceeded the authority granted by Congress. The tariffs were described as \'93unbounded in scope, amount and duration.\'94 These decisions did not end the fights. The administration filed emergency appeals to the Supreme Court, arguing that the tariffs were essential to national prosperity and that the Alien Enemies Act could be read broadly. But the rulings marked a rare week in which judicial checks on emergency powers were clear and public.\
\
At the same time, law was being used as a weapon against domestic opponents. Trump ordered the Justice Department to investigate ActBlue, the main fundraising platform for Democratic candidates, while leaving its Republican counterpart untouched. The DOJ sued Boston over its sanctuary policies and filed suit against the city\'92s mayor, claiming obstruction of federal immigration law. A sitting member of Congress, LaMonica McIver, was indicted after attempting to conduct oversight at an ICE facility; her colleagues blocked a censure resolution that would have stripped her committee assignments, but the criminal case moved ahead. A U.S. army veteran, Bajun Mavalwalla, who had protested outside an ICE office, was arrested weeks later on federal conspiracy charges and now faces up to six years in prison. These cases sent a clear signal: to challenge immigration enforcement or federal overreach was to risk being cast as a criminal conspirator.\
\
The Justice Department\'92s reach extended into other contested terrain. Officials floated a policy that would ban transgender people from owning firearms by classifying trans identity as a mental illness under existing regulations. The proposal, still under consideration, would turn a civil rights question into a matter of psychiatric exclusion, using the language of safety to justify discrimination. The department opened a criminal investigation into Federal Reserve governor Lisa Cook for alleged mortgage fraud, even as reports surfaced that several Trump cabinet members faced similar allegations without visible action. And in the background, a DOJ official was caught on camera discussing plans to redact Republicans from the Epstein files and to move Ghislaine Maxwell to a more lenient prison, suggesting that the same institution that pursued some elite figures was also preparing to shield others.\
\
Information and memory were contested as fiercely as territory. The House Oversight Committee released more than 33,000 pages of Epstein-related documents, but most of the material was already public. Survivors and their allies saw the release as a gesture designed to blunt pressure for full disclosure. Representative Thomas Massie, a Republican, filed a discharge petition to force a vote on a bill that would compel the release of all Epstein files. By week\'92s end, he had 214 signatures and needed four more. Outside the Capitol, survivors held a press conference to demand justice and transparency. As they spoke, fighter jets roared overhead in a no-fly zone, drowning out their words. The administration had arranged a military flyover at that moment. Whether intended as a show of force or a coincidence, the effect was the same: the voices of those seeking accountability were literally drowned out by the sound of state power.\
\
Inside Congress, Republicans moved to reshape the story of January 6. The House voted to create a new subcommittee, led by a Trump ally, to reinvestigate the attack on the Capitol, with full subpoena authority and a mandate to \'93uncover all the facts.\'94 Democrats saw it as an effort to exonerate Trump and discredit the earlier, bipartisan investigation. In a related vote, House Republicans blocked an amendment that would have required the Speaker to hang a plaque honoring the police officers who defended the Capitol that day. The refusal to commemorate those officers, combined with the new panel\'92s mission, signaled a broader project: to curate public memory so that the attack became less a crime against democracy and more a contested narrative subject to partisan revision.\
\
The same impulse appeared in the handling of archives. Reports that DOJ officials planned to redact Republicans from Epstein files and to manage Maxwell\'92s conditions for silence suggested an approach to records in which political protection trumped completeness. The department later issued a statement that appeared to confirm some of the controversial comments about Maxwell\'92s treatment. At the same time, the administration froze nearly $800 million in research funding at Northwestern University, prompting the university\'92s president to resign in the name of academic freedom. Public broadcasters were not spared. PBS laid off 34 employees after Trump defunded the network, and the U.S. Agency for Global Media announced more than 500 layoffs at Voice of America and related outlets, even as a court blocked the removal of VOA\'92s director. Independent media and universities, two of the country\'92s main engines of critical memory, were being starved or pressured, while state-aligned narratives and curated releases filled the space.\
\
If information was being narrowed, the civil service was being reshaped. The week saw the firing of CDC director Susan Monarez, just a month after her Senate confirmation, for refusing to support Health Secretary Robert F. Kennedy Jr.\'92s vaccine policies. Three top CDC scientists resigned in protest. The White House installed Jim O\'92Neill, a biotech investor with no medical training, as acting director. At the FDA, Paul Offit, a leading vaccine expert and critic of Kennedy, was quietly removed from the vaccines advisory committee. More than 1,000 current and former HHS employees signed a letter calling for Kennedy\'92s resignation, accusing him of endangering public health and installing ideologues in key posts. Nine former CDC directors published an op-ed warning that his policies\'97firing experts, cutting programs, and cancelling $500 million in mRNA vaccine research\'97were putting the country at risk. In Florida, legislators moved to eliminate all vaccine requirements for public school students, aligning state law with the new federal stance.\
\
These changes were not confined to health. The administration cancelled union contracts and collective bargaining agreements for nearly 450,000 federal workers, stripping them of protections and prompting protests and strikes, especially in the Washington area. Labor leaders condemned energy policies that cut renewable projects and raised electricity prices, arguing that working families were being sacrificed to ideological goals. The White House\'92s Labor Day statement claimed that tariffs had generated $8 trillion in revenue, a figure economists said was off by orders of magnitude. The Congressional Budget Office estimated that Trump\'92s tax law would give minimal relief to families earning under $50,000 while cutting Medicaid and food assistance, and would deliver large benefits to those earning over $1 million. A national poll found that only a quarter of Americans believed they could improve their standard of living, with nearly seventy percent saying it was no longer possible to work hard and get ahead. Economic policy, in this light, looked less like shared prosperity and more like a system in which inequality was a feature, not a flaw.\
\
Whistleblowers who tried to expose the costs of these choices found little protection. Charles Borges, the chief data officer at the Social Security Administration, resigned after filing a complaint that a new oversight office had uploaded confidential data on millions of Americans to an insecure cloud server. He described a culture of fear in which employees were punished for speaking out. At FEMA, more than thirty employees were reportedly suspended after signing a letter warning Congress about problems inside the agency; a whistleblower group wrote to lawmakers calling for an investigation into illegal retaliation. These cases, taken together, showed a government in which internal critics were not only ignored but actively pushed out, even when they were trying to protect the public\'92s data or safety.\
\
Against this backdrop, some institutions still asserted their independence. A federal judge ordered the Trump administration to restore $2.6 billion in grants to Harvard University, finding that the cuts were unlawful retaliation for the university\'92s refusal to change its policies at the White House\'92s demand. The ruling protected academic autonomy from direct financial coercion and slightly lowered the Democracy Clock\'92s measure of pressure on universities. In Utah, a state judge invalidated a congressional map that split Salt Lake City into four districts, diluting Democratic votes, and ordered the legislature to draw a fairer map. In North Carolina, the Democratic National Committee and voting rights groups negotiated an agreement with the Justice Department that would allow nearly 98,000 voters to provide missing identification information when casting provisional ballots, rather than being denied outright. These were narrow victories, but they showed that courts and negotiated settlements could still widen the circle of representation, even as the executive sought to narrow it.\
\
Yet the broader trend in elections pointed the other way. Trump announced plans for executive orders to mandate voter ID in all U.S. elections and to eliminate most mail-in voting, despite the Constitution\'92s grant of primary election authority to the states. He framed these moves as necessary for \'93election integrity,\'94 rooted in false claims about the 2020 election. USCIS banned nongovernmental groups from registering new voters at naturalization ceremonies, cutting off a traditional path by which new citizens were welcomed into civic life. The Justice Department\'92s lawsuit in North Carolina, before it was softened by settlement, had sought to deny ballots to tens of thousands of voters for missing data that could have been supplied later. In combination, these actions advanced a model in which voting was treated as a privilege to be tightly controlled, not a right to be broadly secured.\
\
The week also showed how quickly the boundary between protest and threat could be redrawn. The conspiracy charges against the ICE protester in Spokane, the indictment of Representative McIver for oversight at a detention facility, and the military flyover that drowned out Epstein survivors\'92 press conference all pointed in the same direction. Protest was tolerated only when it did not touch the core projects of the administration\'97immigration enforcement, elite impunity, or the president\'92s own narrative. When it did, the response was not engagement but intimidation, whether through law, force, or noise. Communities responded with their own forms of organization. In neighborhoods facing increased ICE activity and federal presence, residents held \'93ICE watch\'94 trainings to teach people their rights and how to document abuses. These efforts did not change federal policy, but they kept alive a different idea of law: one in which knowledge and solidarity could still offer some protection.\
\
Looking ahead from Week 33, several threads were already in motion. The Supreme Court was being asked to decide whether Trump\'92s tariffs and his use of the Alien Enemies Act would stand, and whether a Biden-appointed FTC commissioner could be removed at will. Congress was on the verge of forcing a vote on full Epstein file disclosure, with only a few signatures missing. Lawsuits over the Revolution Wind project, the DC federal takeover, and the Alligator Alcatraz detention center were moving through the courts. State legislatures in Florida and elsewhere were debating vaccine mandates that would reshape public health for a generation. These were not abstract disputes. They would determine whether emergency powers remained bounded, whether archives could be curated for political ends, and whether the basic conditions of health and representation would be set by science and law or by loyalty and fear.\
\
The Democracy Clock remains at 7:58 p.m. at the close of Week 33, but the stillness of the dial should not be mistaken for safety. This was a week in which the executive branch spoke openly of authoritarian needs, rebranded its military arm as a Department of War, expanded immigration enforcement into a quasi-paramilitary force, and deepened its use of law as a tool against opponents and vulnerable groups. At the same time, courts, states, and civil society mounted real, if partial, resistance\'97blocking some deployments, saving some children, restoring some grants, and insisting on some transparency. The balance between these forces kept the clock from jumping forward, yet the structure of power continued to tilt. The story of this week is not one of sudden collapse but of steady consolidation, of a democracy that still has defenders but whose institutions are being asked to bear more than they were built to hold. At 7:58 p.m., there is still light in the sky, but the shadows are longer, and the path back to an earlier hour grows harder to see.}