{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 .SFNS-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red14\green14\blue14;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c6700\c6700\c6700;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf2 A democracy cannot flourish if its people are denied the tools to rise. Education and opportunity are not peripheral to self-government. They are its engine. A society that expects citizens to deliberate, vote, build, innovate, and lead must equip them with knowledge and possibility. Without that, political equality becomes symbolic rather than real\'97legal rights without the capacity to exercise them fully.\cf0 \
Education is the closest thing a democracy has to a generational covenant. Each cohort prepares the next not only to succeed personally, but to sustain the republic. So when schools are underfunded, when teachers are disrespected, when curricula are distorted for political gain, when college becomes a financial hazard rather than a path forward, and when work no longer offers dignity or mobility, the entire democratic project begins to tilt. That tilt is visible in daily life.\
\cf2 Over the past year, Americans have seen signs of this tilt everywhere: school districts struggling to hire and retain teachers; classrooms without updated materials; states rewriting curricula to match political narratives rather than history; universities cutting programs after financial strain; graduates trapped in debt burdens that limit their futures; workers facing stagnant wages while costs rise; and industries treating flexibility as a rationale for erasing rights rather than expanding them. These pressures do not only harm individuals. They weaken the civic foundation on which democratic life depends.\cf0 \
A nation committed to renewal must ensure that every person\'97every child, every student, every worker\'97has the opportunity to learn, advance, and thrive. Education and labor are not separate issues. They are stages of the same journey. When both falter, mobility collapses and democracy soon follows. The link is direct.\
Public education is the first and most universal expression of this commitment. It is the institution that reaches every family, every neighborhood, every background. Yet for decades, public schools have been expected to do more with less\'97to bridge opportunity gaps without the resources to do so. Funding tied to local wealth creates dramatic differences across zip codes. Teachers are praised rhetorically but treated dismissively in policy. Political actors have turned classrooms into battlegrounds, undermining trust between families and schools. Students pay the price through crowded classrooms, outdated materials, and opportunities that depend too heavily on geography and luck.\
A renewed democracy requires high-quality public education in every zip code, supported by equitable funding formulas that reflect need rather than property values. Schools must have the resources to provide strong instruction, modern technology, safe facilities, and specialized support for students who need it. Teachers must be respected as professionals, compensated fairly, and given the autonomy necessary to do their work well. Curricula must be guided by evidence and scholarship rather than the demands of political fashion. That is the baseline.\
A nation that expects citizens to engage thoughtfully in public life must ensure that every child receives not only academic preparation but also civic grounding\'97the knowledge of institutions, rights, responsibilities, and the skills required to participate meaningfully in democracy. Public education is not simply job training. It is nation-building. When schools succeed, democracy gains a generation capable of sustaining it. When they fail, the loss is shared.\
Higher education and technical training extend this work into adulthood. For millions of Americans, college has become less a ladder than a gamble\'97expensive, precarious, and too often shaped by financial pressures that overshadow learning itself. Public universities struggle to remain affordable. Community colleges struggle to remain open. Predatory lenders exploit students\'92 hopes. Graduates carry debts that delay families, careers, and homeownership for years or decades. The promise of mobility is strained.\
A democracy that wishes to elevate its people must make higher education accessible and sustainable. Public colleges and universities should be affordable enough that students can attend without mortgaging their futures. Student debt must be manageable, with repayment options that reflect actual wages and economic conditions. Policies should encourage technical training, apprenticeships, and certification programs that prepare students for stable, well-paid work in emerging fields. Community colleges\'97often the most nimble and accessible institutions in the system\'97should be funded to meet rising demand rather than left to absorb budget cuts that limit opportunity.\
Higher education is not only about economic mobility. It is about intellectual freedom, innovation, and the ability to understand a rapidly changing world. When access is limited by cost, the country loses talent, creativity, and the sense that advancement is possible. When access is broad, the next generation can build rather than merely inherit the future. The stakes are national, not just personal.\
Workforce and labor rights complete the picture. Once students leave school, the quality of their lives depends on the dignity of their work\'97whether wages are livable, whether workplaces are safe, whether benefits exist, whether rights are respected, and whether the economy rewards contribution rather than mere capital accumulation. Over the past year, many Americans have felt these rights diminish. Wages have failed to keep pace with rising prices. \'93Flexibility\'94 has been used as a rationale to deny benefits. Safety standards have been weakened or inconsistently enforced. Workers who seek to organize have faced retaliation, intimidation, or procedural delays that make their rights difficult to exercise. The pattern is clear.\
A democracy that values its people must protect the dignity of work. Livable wages, reliable benefits, and safe workplaces are not special concessions. They are the minimum conditions for a stable society. Labor laws must extend to gig workers, contract workers, and workers in emerging industries whose rights often fall into legal gaps. Enforcement must be consistent and fair. Collective bargaining must be treated not as a threat but as a vital part of a balanced economy\'97one in which workers have a voice strong enough to counterbalance concentrated economic power.\
When people feel exploited or replaceable, trust in institutions erodes. When work provides dignity and security, people contribute more fully to civic life, and communities become stronger and more resilient. Education prepares people for opportunity. Labor rights ensure that opportunity does not become exploitation. Both are required.\
The reforms in this chapter share a common goal: to build a nation where talent is cultivated, not squandered; where contribution is rewarded, not punished; and where every person has a fair chance to rise. For the reader, these deliverables show up in daily life\'97in the quality of their children\'92s schools, the cost of their own education, the dignity of their work, and the stability of their income. These reforms answer a simple question: does this society help people grow, or does it hold them back? The answer will shape the future.\
\cf2 The year ahead offers a chance to choose growth. Voters can support leaders who believe that education is a public good rather than a political tool. Candidates can champion the dignity of work and the expansion of opportunity. Communities can demand investments in schools, colleges, and training programs that match the scale of modern challenges. A democracy that educates and elevates its people is a democracy capable of renewal.\cf0 \
\cf2 Education and elevation are not luxuries. They are the conditions that allow a free people to build, innovate, and govern themselves. When these conditions are met, mobility becomes possible, inequality narrows, and trust deepens. When they are neglected, frustration grows, hope dims, and the civic fabric frays. A nation that educates and elevates is not only more prosperous. It is more united, more confident, and more capable of shaping the future with intention rather than drifting into it by default.\cf0 \
\cf2 A democracy that fails to educate will lose its footing. A democracy that fails to elevate will lose its people. But a democracy that does both can renew itself generation after generation. That is the work of this chapter\'97and the promise of the chapters that follow.}