{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 .SFNS-Regular;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 .SFNS-RegularItalic;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red14\green14\blue14;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c6700\c6700\c6700;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf2 There are moments in a nation\'92s life when the questions before it are not technical but fundamental. They are not about marginal tax rates or the size of an appropriations bill. They are about whether the country still remembers how to govern itself, whether its institutions still command enough trust to function, and whether its people still believe that democracy is capable of delivering a life of dignity and possibility. The United States stands in such a moment now.\
\
For several decades, and especially across the past ten years, American democracy has been drifting toward a dangerous edge. Institutions that once mediated conflict have weakened. Norms that once constrained power have eroded. Misinformation has flooded the information commons. Economic and social inequalities have widened. The machinery of government\'97built on consent, constraint, and shared truth\'97has struggled to keep pace with 21st-century challenges. Many Americans have begun to wonder whether democracy can deliver anything at all.\
\
But there is another story unfolding alongside the grim one. In every state, in every community, and across every political identity, millions of Americans have quietly been rediscovering something essential: democracy is not a spectator system. It is a practice, a habit, a choice. It depends on people who show up, people who care about more than their own grievance or gain, people who understand that a republic survives only when enough citizens are willing to shoulder the obligation of keeping it honest.\
\
This book arrives at a moment when that rediscovery is gathering momentum.\
\

\f1\i The Way Back
\f0\i0  is not a chronicle of decline, nor is it a lament for a fading ideal. It is a guide for the work ahead\'97a clear, compelling articulation of what a functioning democracy requires, what went wrong, and what must be repaired if the country is to reclaim a future worthy of its promise. More importantly, it speaks to every American: voters who must choose wisely, candidates who must govern with integrity, organizers who must sustain civic energy, and institutions that must remember the purpose for which they exist.\
\
The architecture of this book rests on several pillars. The first is the recognition that democracy is not defined by a single election or a single presidency; it is an ecosystem. Its health is determined not only by whether ballots are counted fairly but also by whether courts operate independently, whether the executive remains within constitutional bounds, whether the media landscape supports truth over manipulation, and whether citizens see the system as capable of improving their lives. When any of these components fail, democracy strains. When several fail at once, democracy risks breaking.\
\
A second pillar is the understanding that democratic repair is not merely technical. It is moral. It is cultural. It requires a shared commitment to honesty, fairness, dignity, and equal belonging. It demands that leaders respect the limits of their authority, that institutions defend the principles they were built to uphold, and that citizens refuse to tolerate those who would sacrifice the republic for personal gain. A democracy without a moral floor cannot stand; a democracy with one can weather storms.\
\
A third pillar is the recognition that democratic renewal is not abstract. It can be designed. It can be built. It can be implemented. The reforms outlined in this book\'97drawn from years of scholarship, public service, and democratic analysis\'97form a coherent blueprint for restoration and long-term stability. They address the structural questions: How should elections be protected? How should presidential power be constrained? How should courts be rebalanced? How should agencies be shielded from political capture? These are not partisan matters. They are constitutional ones.\
\
Yet 
\f1\i The Way Back
\f0\i0  does not stop at structure. It also answers the deeper question: 
\f1\i What is democracy for?
\f0\i0  It argues, persuasively, that democracy must do more than constrain leaders; it must serve people. It must care for the vulnerable, elevate talent, provide safety and justice, protect equal dignity, and prepare the country for the challenges of the century ahead. A democracy that cannot deliver these goods will not survive, no matter how elegant its procedures may be.\
\
What makes this book distinct is the clarity with which it brings these elements together. It recognizes that repairing American democracy is not a single task but several: restoring foundations, improving deliverables, reinforcing ethical norms, and preparing institutions for the future. And it recognizes that none of this will happen unless the public\'97millions of ordinary citizens\'97understand what is at stake and act accordingly.\
\
This is why the final section of the book, a field manual for the 2026 midterm elections, is so vital. For all the structural and philosophical work laid out in the earlier chapters, power ultimately rests with the people. Elections are the hinge on which restoration turns. If voters demand accountability, if candidates run on integrity and reform, if organizers sustain local momentum, and if communities insist on leaders who honor democratic principles, the United States can rebuild the guardrails that protect its freedom. The midterms of 2026 will not determine everything\'97but they will determine whether the country retains the political capacity to repair what has been damaged.\
\
As you read the chapters that follow, you will find no cynicism and no resignation. You will find clarity, honesty, and a steady confidence that democracy can still deliver when citizens choose to make it do so. You will find a deep respect for the American people and for the founding promises that remain within reach, even after a difficult decade. And you will find a blueprint\'97not for returning to some imagined past, but for building a republic capable of meeting the demands of the future.\
\
This book will challenge you. It will ask you to think about what democracy requires from you\'97not just what you require from it. It will ask you to consider the responsibilities of self-government and the moral courage needed to defend it. But it will also show you that renewal is possible. That the country has not exhausted its potential. That the damage of recent years, while serious, is not beyond repair. And that the path back is real, practical, and within reach.\
\
In moments of democratic uncertainty, nations look for a compass. They look for a clear articulation of what must be defended and what must be built. They look for an argument that is steady enough to trust and ambitious enough to inspire. 
\f1\i The Way Back
\f0\i0  is such an argument. It is not the only one, but it is an essential one.\
\
America still has a choice. This book will help it choose well.}