{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 .SFNS-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red14\green14\blue14;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c6700\c6700\c6700;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf2 A democracy proves its worth not through slogans but through care. The simplest test of a self-governing society is whether people can live decent, stable, secure lives within it\'97not as a privilege, but as a right. That begins with a more basic question: who counts as \'93its own\'94? When a country narrows that circle\'97treating some neighbors as threats, some children as conditional, some communities as disposable\'97it does more than shift policy. It hollows out the moral core of the republic. A nation that genuinely cares for its own does not define \'93its own\'94 by paperwork or ancestry alone. It recognizes that people who live, work, study, worship, and raise families under its laws are part of its common life and deserve to be treated with dignity.\cf0 \
\cf2 Over the past year, Americans have seen their government move in the opposite direction. On the very first day of the new term, the president declared a national emergency at the southern border and signed a suite of orders casting immigration not as a matter of law and humanity, but as an \'93invasion\'94 to be repelled. This happened even as illegal crossings stood at their lowest point in five years. Other orders suspended refugee admissions, tightened vetting, and instructed agencies to revoke earlier efforts to integrate newcomers into local communities. One executive order moved to end birthright citizenship for children born in the United States to certain non-citizen parents, despite the plain language of the Fourteenth Amendment. Another made English the official language and invited agencies and federally funded organizations to drop services in other languages if they chose. Together, these actions told millions of people living under the flag that their place in the national family was suddenly uncertain.\cf0 \
These choices are not technical adjustments. They are decisions about who is considered worth caring for. Declaring an emergency where none exists in order to deploy troops to the border, halting refugee programs that have long been a lifeline for families fleeing danger, suspending entry at the southern border even for those seeking asylum\'97these steps frame vulnerable people as burdens or threats rather than as neighbors and prospective citizens. Orders requiring truck drivers to meet new English-language standards and allowing agencies to limit non-English services reshape access to work, safety, and public help for entire communities. These are not small matters. Executive actions that claim to \'93protect the meaning and value of American citizenship\'94 by excluding some children born on American soil strike at the idea that the country\'92s future is open to all who are born into it. A nation that treats belonging as a scarce resource to be hoarded at the top, rather than a shared commitment to be extended outward, cannot honestly claim to care for its own.\
To repair that breach, we must start by recovering a broader, more humane understanding of who \'93our own\'94 are. That includes citizens and non-citizens alike who contribute to the life of the country, pay taxes, raise children, and sustain communities. It includes refugees who have risked everything to seek safety under American law. It includes mixed-status families, where one executive order can destabilize an entire household. The Promise embedded in this deliverable\'97A Nation That Cares for Its Own\'97is that government will not divide people into worthy and unworthy based on fear, origin, or convenience. The Imperative is to build systems that support all who are living within the law, so that communities can function with a sense of security rather than permanent anxiety. That is the standard.\
\cf2 From that foundation, care must move from principle into policy. Health care is the clearest expression of whether a society values the people who dwell within it. A system that ties treatment to employment or income cannot guarantee care as a right. It can only distribute it as a privilege. In such a system, illness becomes a financial threat, and families must choose between seeking help and staying solvent. A democracy that treats people unequally at the moment they are most vulnerable betrays its basic obligations. Universal access to essential health services\'97without ruinous cost, arbitrary exclusions, or discrimination\'97is not an extravagance. It is a requirement if people are to live with enough security to participate fully in civic life. When health is precarious, everything else becomes precarious.\cf0 \
Housing follows the same logic. Shelter is not simply a commodity; it is the foundation upon which work, education, and community depend. Without stable housing, children cannot learn consistently, parents cannot reliably hold jobs, and elders cannot age with dignity. A nation that cares for its own must ensure that safe, affordable housing is within reach for ordinary families, not just for those with inherited wealth or fortunate timing. That means supporting the construction and preservation of affordable units, regulating speculation that drives up prices without adding real value, and protecting tenants from sudden displacement. These are concrete tasks. When people know they have a place to live, they are more able to plant roots, contribute to their neighborhoods, and see themselves as part of a shared future.\
Food and income security are equally central. A society that tolerates chronic hunger or persistent poverty in the midst of wealth is not failing at charity; it is failing at democracy. People who are never sure how they will pay for groceries, childcare, or basic bills live in a constant state of crisis that leaves little room for civic engagement. Robust nutrition assistance programs, fair wages that reflect the cost of living, reliable unemployment insurance, and secure retirement systems are not giveaways. They are the practical expression of a promise: that no one who works, contributes, or cares for others will be left abandoned when circumstances change. When safety nets are strong and accessible, people can take risks, change jobs, start businesses, and care for family members without fearing instant collapse. That is how freedom feels in daily life.\
\cf2 Caring for its own also means recognizing families and children as a public responsibility, not a private luxury. Childcare is infrastructure. Without affordable, high-quality care, parents\'97especially mothers\'97are pushed out of the workforce or forced into impossible balancing acts that harm both family and work life. A nation that values families will invest in early childhood education, support community-based care providers with fair pay and training, and provide paid family leave so that parents do not have to choose between bonding with a newborn and keeping their jobs. These investments are not merely compassionate. They are economically sound, increasing labor force participation and building the human capital on which the country\'92s future depends.\cf0 \
\cf2 Underlying all of these domains is the question of how we share burdens and benefits. Taxes are one of the clearest ways a society answers that question. A system that allows the wealthiest individuals and corporations to avoid or minimize their contributions while relying heavily on payroll, consumption, and fees paid by those with the least undermines both fairness and trust. A nation that cares for its own will design a tax code that asks more of those who have gained the most from the stability, infrastructure, and legal protections the country provides. Progressive rates, effective enforcement against sophisticated evasion, and the closing of loopholes that reward speculation over productive investment are not punitive. They simply align contributions with capacity and benefit. The revenue they generate funds the health, housing, education, and care systems that make a decent life broadly possible.\cf0 \
Viewed together, these reforms\'97humane immigration and citizenship policies, universal health care, stable housing, food and income security, family support, and fair taxation\'97form a single picture. They describe a society in which dignity is not reserved for the few but is available to all who live within its laws and under its protection. Dignity is the condition that allows people to move through their lives without constant fear of losing everything to illness, job loss, family change, or political whim. It allows families to plan, communities to flourish, and citizenship to feel meaningful rather than abstract. It makes democracy tangible.\
For the reader, these questions are not theoretical. They show up in doctor\'92s appointments postponed or made, in rent that can or cannot be paid, in the availability of childcare, in the security of a job, and in the reassurance that neighbors\'97even those who arrived more recently\'97are seen and treated as part of the \'93we.\'94 The executive orders and declarations of this past year, particularly those aimed at redefining who belongs and who may enter, have made it clear how quickly care can be narrowed when leaders view vulnerability as an opportunity for political gain. The work of democratic repair is to reverse that narrowing and to rebuild a country that sees care as a measure of strength rather than weakness. That work starts close to home.\
\cf2 The elections ahead offer a chance to insist on that standard. Voters can ask candidates how they define \'93our own,\'94 and whether their policies reflect a commitment to the well-being of all who live here. They can support leaders who reject fear-based appeals and instead offer practical plans for health, housing, work, and family support. Communities can organize not only to resist harmful measures\'97such as attempts to strip birthright citizenship or shut out refugees\'97but to demand proactive investments in the systems that sustain daily life. The work is structural, but it is also moral. It asks, in plain terms, whether the nation is willing to treat the people within its borders as a shared responsibility.\cf0 \
\cf2 A nation that cares for its own is not sentimental. It is resilient. It can weather crises without turning inward or turning on itself. When care is present, people experience government not as a distant power but as a partner in the work of building stable, meaningful lives. When care is absent, politics becomes a scramble for advantage in a landscape of scarcity and fear. The deliverables in this chapter are not acts of charity. They are the foundation of a democracy worthy of its name. If the republic wishes to endure, it must ensure that every person\'97not only the prosperous, not only the well-connected, not only the native-born\'97can live with dignity, security, and the confidence that their country will not abandon them when life becomes difficult.}