{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26 \cf0 By Week 37, the pattern that had been building for months came into sharp relief. Power was no longer only being hoarded at the center; it was being aimed. The federal government did not simply grow more partisan in tone. It began to act as if it were the political arm of a single faction, using money, law, and force to reward friends and punish enemies. The week\'92s events showed a government that treated opposition-run states, neutral civil servants, and independent sources of information as obstacles to be overcome rather than parts of a shared constitutional order. The Democracy Clock registered this as a further tightening of the walls around democratic life.\
\
At the end of the previous period, the Clock stood at 7:58 p.m. It now reads 7:59 p.m., a movement of 0.7 minutes toward midnight. The shift is small in absolute terms, but it reflects broad movement across many traits: law as a weapon, emergency powers as routine, federal power turned against disfavored regions, civil service politicized, dissent recast as terrorism, and information space flooded with state-backed disinformation. The week did not bring a single coup-like break. Instead, it layered together a government shutdown used as a weapon, domestic militarization, targeted economic punishment, and the conversion of neutral institutions into partisan tools. Together, these changes narrowed the space in which lawful opposition and independent judgment can operate.\
\
The first and most visible development was the shutdown itself and the way it was used. Congress failed to pass funding bills, and by midweek the federal government closed its doors. Hundreds of thousands of workers were furloughed or forced to work without pay, and the administration made clear that this was not an unfortunate side effect but a lever. The White House and the Office of Management and Budget threatened mass layoffs, spoke openly of using the shutdown to make \'93irreversible\'94 cuts to health and social programs, and framed the crisis as an opportunity to reshape the state. This was not budget discipline. It was governance by siege. The losers were ordinary federal workers and the public services they provide. The winners were those in the executive who saw in the shutdown a chance to shrink and reshape the bureaucracy without going through Congress.\
\
The shutdown also became a tool for targeted economic punishment. OMB director Russ Vought froze or threatened to cut billions of dollars in infrastructure and climate-related projects concentrated in Democratic-led jurisdictions. New York City\'92s transit expansions, Chicago\'92s subway modernization, and climate projects in sixteen states all found themselves on hold or canceled, even when Congress had already appropriated the funds. At the same time, the administration pressed ahead with a $20 billion bailout for Argentina and prepared bailout payments for farmers hurt by its own trade policies. Federal power was no longer being used to smooth regional disparities; it was being used to deepen them along partisan lines. This is what it means for opposition parties to be \'93allowed but structurally weakened\'94: they can run for office, but the levers of national power are turned against the places they govern.\
\
Inside the government, the shutdown and related policies accelerated a structural purge of the civil service. The administration\'92s \'93Deferred Resignation Program\'94 reached its climax as roughly 100,000 federal workers\'92 resignations took effect, the largest single loss of civilian federal employees in modern history. Agencies were told to prepare for mass firings if Congress did not yield. Federal labor unions sued to block illegal terminations. Workers described a climate of fear and pressure rather than voluntary exit. The effect was to hollow out the neutral bureaucracy and replace experience with loyalty. A government that cannot retain independent professionals becomes easier to bend toward the will of a single leader.\
\
At the same time, the line between civil service and partisan messaging was deliberately erased. Multiple agencies, including Housing and Urban Development, the Department of Education, and others, used official websites and out-of-office emails to blame Democrats for the shutdown. HUD\'92s homepage carried a bright red banner attacking the \'93radical left.\'94 Education Department employees found their automatic replies rewritten to carry partisan talking points, and when they tried to restore neutral language, the messages were changed back. Complaints cited likely violations of the Hatch Act, but the independent office that enforces that law was itself closed by the shutdown. The civil service was thus conscripted into a propaganda role, while the watchdogs who might object were sidelined.\
\
The week also saw a deepening of the pattern in which law is used as a weapon rather than a limit. The firing of acting U.S. attorney Michele Beckwith after she reminded Border Patrol agents to obey a federal court order was emblematic. Her insistence on constitutional compliance cost her job, and the raid she had tried to restrain went forward. Former FBI director James Comey was indicted on charges widely described as politically motivated, while the New York City Bar Association and others warned about prosecutions driven by \'93impermissible motives.\'94 The Justice Department sued Minnesota over its sanctuary policies and used the FACE Act in a novel way against pro-Palestinian activists at a synagogue, stretching civil-rights law to punish a particular protest movement. In immigration courts, over a hundred judges had already been fired, and six hundred military lawyers with little immigration experience were brought in as judges, raising fears that they would \'93simply follow orders.\'94 Law remained on the books, but its application tilted ever more toward punishing critics and vulnerable groups while shielding allies.\
\
Courts did not speak with one voice. Some rulings reinforced the executive\'92s reach. A Supreme Court decision written by Justice Brett Kavanaugh allowed racial profiling by ICE so long as citizens were released once they proved their status, effectively blessing a practice that many see as incompatible with equal protection. An appeals court stayed the closure of the \'93Alligator Alcatraz\'94 detention facility despite environmental violations, keeping a controversial site open. The Supreme Court granted an emergency stay that let the administration proceed with ending Temporary Protected Status for Venezuelan and Haitian nationals while litigation continued. These decisions signaled to enforcement agencies that aggressive tactics against immigrants and detainees would find support at the highest levels.\
\
Other courts pushed back. A Reagan-appointed federal judge ruled that the administration\'92s effort to detain and deport pro-Palestinian scholars and students for their speech violated the First Amendment, emphasizing that non-citizens share core free-speech rights. Another judge blocked the reallocation of FEMA disaster funds away from twelve Democratic states, calling the administration\'92s approach an attempt to \'93do what it wants rather than follow the law.\'94 The Supreme Court itself declined, for now, to let the president fire Federal Reserve governor Lisa Cook, preserving a measure of central bank independence. These rulings did not reverse the week\'92s drift, but they showed that some institutional resistance remained, even as the overall pattern of judicial outcomes tilted toward executive and elite preferences.\
\
While law was being bent, the tools of force were being reoriented. Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth summoned hundreds of generals and admirals to Quantico for an unprecedented meeting. There, he and President Trump delivered speeches that recast the military\'92s mission and ethos. Hegseth announced the rollback of rules of engagement designed to protect civilians, the weakening of whistleblower protections, and a return to male-only physical standards for combat roles, all under the banner of a \'93warrior ethos.\'94 Trump went further, describing domestic unrest as an \'93invasion from within,\'94 suggesting that American cities could serve as training grounds for troops, and warning commanders that those who did not comply with his directives could be dismissed. The message was clear. The military was to be loyal not to a constitutional order, but to a leader and his narrative of internal enemies.\
\
These speeches were not abstract. They were paired with concrete moves to bring military and quasi-military force into domestic politics. The administration ordered federal troops and National Guard units to Portland, Oregon, over the objections of the governor and mayor, ostensibly to protect ICE facilities from \'93Antifa\'94 and \'93domestic terrorists.\'94 Oregon\'92s attorney general sued to block the deployment, arguing that there was no insurrection or mass anarchy, only a small protest. A federal judge prepared to hear arguments on whether to halt the activation of 200 Guard members. In Louisiana, the governor requested 1,000 Guard troops for New Orleans and other cities, citing crime and disaster risk, in line with a broader pattern of using soldiers for routine law enforcement. At the same time, the administration declared a formal \'93armed conflict\'94 with drug cartels, labeling them terrorists and treating suspected smugglers as \'93unlawful combatants.\'94 This declaration opened the door to military action in places like Venezuela and blurred the line between war and policing.\
\
Immigration enforcement became the central theater where these trends converged. \'93Operation Midway Blitz\'94 in Chicago brought ICE agents in military-style gear to a processing center, backed by raids on apartment buildings that used tactics more associated with war zones than city streets. Residents, including women and children, were pulled from their homes, zip-tied, and left outside for hours. Tear gas and pepper balls were used against protesters who tried to block government vehicles. In Texas, a court filing described grim conditions at a family detention center: dirty water, inadequate medical care, and children held far beyond legal limits. ICE deported long-settled southeast Asian refugees and dozens of Iranians under a new deal with Tehran, despite human-rights concerns. A journalist, Mario Guevara, was arrested while covering a protest and then deported to El Salvador after 100 days in custody, despite his work permit and U.S. citizen children. These actions did not simply enforce immigration law. They sent a message that certain communities and critics could be treated as expendable.\
\
The administration\'92s rhetoric and legal posture reinforced this stratification of citizenship. A coalition of twenty states sued to block a Justice Department rule that would deny aid to victims of sexual assault and domestic violence unless they could immediately prove their immigration status, arguing that it punished the most vulnerable. An immigration judge denied Kilmar \'c1brego Garc\'eda\'92s motion to reopen his asylum claim on procedural grounds, even as the administration publicly labeled him a gang member without convictions. The Supreme Court\'92s TPS stay and Kavanaugh\'92s profiling opinion, combined with these enforcement choices, made clear that immigration status, origin, and perceived ideology now sharply affected one\'92s access to safety and rights.\
\
Alongside force and law, information itself became a contested field. The president and the White House used AI-generated deepfake videos to attack Democratic leaders Chuck Schumer and Hakeem Jeffries, depicting them in racist and vulgar ways and falsely suggesting they supported benefits for undocumented immigrants. These videos were not confined to fringe platforms; they were played on loop in the White House briefing room. The president also shared a fabricated \'93MedBed\'94 video promising imaginary miracle hospitals and issued a press release claiming that Tylenol use in pregnancy causes autism, citing weak and misrepresented studies while omitting contrary evidence. Federal agencies joined in the distortion. The Department of Energy instructed staff to avoid terms like \'93climate change\'94 and \'93decarbonization.\'94 HUD\'92s website banner and agency-wide emails blamed Democrats for the shutdown. The administration suspended Voice of America broadcasts during the funding lapse, silencing a long-standing source of independent news at the very moment when government actions most needed scrutiny.\
\
Private platforms were drawn into this information struggle. Under pressure from the administration, Apple removed the IceBlock app and similar tools that allowed users to track ICE activity, citing \'93safety risks.\'94 YouTube settled a lawsuit with Trump by paying $24.5 million, funding a White House ballroom and conservative groups, after suspending his account following January 6. A class action challenged the administration\'92s aggregation of personal data from federal agencies as unconstitutional and dangerous to voter rights. Together, these moves showed how data and algorithms could be used to shape what the public sees and knows, while tools that enabled citizens to watch the state were curtailed.\
\
The same week, the administration moved to weaken independent oversight and internal dissent. At the Pentagon, Hegseth announced an overhaul of the Inspector General\'92s office, accusing it of being \'93weaponized\'94 even as it investigated him. Plans were reported to require thousands of personnel to sign nondisclosure agreements and undergo random polygraph tests to hunt for leakers. In civilian agencies, whistleblower protections were rolled back, and civil servants who displayed even modest symbols of inclusion, like a Pride flag on a desk, were punished. FBI Director Kash Patel fired a trainee and a long-time employee for such displays, labeling them \'93political signage.\'94 These actions did more than chill speech inside government. They signaled that loyalty to the administration\'92s cultural and political line was now a condition of service.\
\
Economic and regulatory power also shifted in ways that favored insiders and punished opponents. While some actions, like the Pfizer agreement to offer discounted drugs through a federal website, promised tangible benefits to patients, they sat alongside efforts to shield pesticide manufacturers from lawsuits and to preempt state warnings about health risks. Congress advanced a provision that would make it harder for consumers to sue over pesticide-related cancers, tying state warnings to federal assessments. The administration canceled nearly $8 billion in climate-related funding, largely in states that had not supported Trump, and froze homelessness program funds that could have kept 170,000 people housed. Planned Parenthood clinics in Wisconsin suspended abortion services after a new law cut Medicaid reimbursements to providers above a certain threshold, effectively forcing a choice between abortion care and broader health services. These decisions did not abolish elections or legislatures. They changed the material conditions under which different communities live and vote.\
\
Even the symbolic realm of history and honor was drawn into this pattern. Defense Secretary Hegseth decided that the Medals of Honor awarded to soldiers involved in the Wounded Knee massacre would stand, praising the men as \'93brave\'94 despite the killing of hundreds of Lakota people. This choice, paired with the glorification of a harsher \'93warrior ethos\'94 in his Quantico speech, signaled a preference for narratives of conquest over accountability. At universities, federal threats to withdraw funding for institutions deemed insufficiently tough on antisemitism led Northwestern to block hundreds of students from registering for classes if they refused to complete a training video they described as biased. The administration\'92s willingness to use money to shape memory and speech extended from campuses to foreign policy, where a unilateral security guarantee to Qatar was issued without Senate ratification, and a Gaza \'93peace plan\'94 was unveiled without Palestinian input, placing Trump himself at the center as head of a \'93Board of Peace.\'94\
\
There were, amid these shifts, pockets of institutional resilience. Federal agencies like the CDC and FDA continued to carry out routine public health and regulatory work: inviting comments on HIV surveillance, overdose reporting, tuberculosis elimination, and clinical trial design; adjusting drug quotas to address shortages; and enforcing debarments against those who imported misbranded drugs. The FTC unanimously authorized and filed an antitrust suit against Zillow and Redfin, showing that some parts of the state still pursued competition and rule-of-law goals. A federal judge blocked the administration from diverting FEMA funds. Another preserved the independence of the Federal Reserve, at least temporarily. These actions did not stop the clock from moving, but they showed that not every institution had been captured.\
\
Looking ahead from Week 37, several processes were already in motion. Courts were set to hear Oregon\'92s challenge to the Portland troop deployment and arguments on the Qatar security guarantee\'92s constitutional footing. The Supreme Court scheduled full arguments on the attempt to remove Federal Reserve governor Lisa Cook for January. The coalition of states suing over the victims\'92 immigration rule, the class action on data aggregation, and the lawsuits by federal unions and individual citizens against ICE practices would all test whether the judiciary could still enforce limits on executive power. In the information sphere, the Senate commerce committee prepared to question FCC chair Brendan Carr about his apparent pressure on broadcasters, while the National Archives\'92 inspector general investigated the release of a congresswoman\'92s unredacted military records. These were not speculative risks. They were live cases that would either reinforce or erode the remaining guardrails.\
\
By the close of the week, the Democracy Clock\'92s movement to 7:59 p.m. captured a simple truth: the formal shell of democracy remained, but the substance was being steadily carved out. The shutdown showed how budgetary chaos could be turned into a governing strategy, not an accident. The Quantico summit and domestic deployments showed how the language and tools of war could be turned inward. Immigration enforcement, abortion prosecutions, and targeted funding cuts showed how citizenship and rights could be stratified by origin, ideology, and geography. Deepfakes, pseudoscience, and partisan agency messaging showed how the informational ground under elections could be made unstable by design. The week matters in the larger arc of the term because it marks a point where these strands\'97law, force, money, and memory\'97began to work in concert rather than in isolation. At 7:59 p.m., there is still time on the clock. But the distance between formal procedures and genuine self-government has grown narrower, and the work of repair has grown harder.}