{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 .SFNS-Semibold;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 .SFNS-Regular;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue-Bold;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red14\green14\blue14;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c6700\c6700\c6700;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs44 \cf2 CANDIDATE\'92S GUIDE TO 2026
\f1\b0\fs28 \cf2 \
\
Running for office has never been easy, but rarely has it carried the weight it does now. The 2026 midterms will decide whether the country completes the work of democratic repair or falls back into the conditions that made repair necessary. Every candidate in this election, whether experienced or new to public life, must realize that they are stepping into a moment that demands more than persuasion, more than party loyalty, more than policy expertise. It requires stewardship. A campaign in 2026 is not a test for status. It is a declaration of readiness to help uphold the foundations on which self-government depends.\
\
The voters you seek to represent are not asking for perfection. They are asking for seriousness, clarity, and courage. They are living with the consequences of systems that frayed over decades\'97schools stretched thin, health systems burdened, courts strained, rights contested, public trust weakened. They are searching for leaders who understand that democracy cannot be repaired with slogans or with gestures but with steady work carried out in the public interest. They want to know whether you see the country as something to be managed or something to be cared for. That distinction will matter more to them than any credential on your r\'e9sum\'e9.\
\
Every candidate must begin with a truth that is easy to overlook in the rhythm of ordinary politics: 
\f2\b every seat is open to renewal
\f1\b0 . That is not a mathematical statement; it is a democratic principle. No office is reserved for incumbents, no district predetermined, no electorate fixed in its loyalties. Voters have seen how legislators responded to the tests of recent years\'97whether they defended the public\'92s rights or deferred to power, whether they upheld oversight or surrendered it, whether they protected institutions or remained silent as they were bent. Silence was a choice. Complicity was a choice. And voters remember choices. If you are running, do not assume that entrenched habits will govern the outcome. Assume instead that citizens are ready to evaluate everyone, including the longest-serving among us, through the lens of duty rather than tradition.\
\
The first responsibility of a candidate in this moment is to understand 
\f2\b what the job requires
\f1\b0 . The country does not need performers or partisans. It needs custodians of the republic\'97people who can absorb pressure without bending the truth, who can negotiate without sacrificing principle, who can hold power without seeking to enlarge it for personal use. The work ahead is structural: securing voting rights, strengthening oversight, reinforcing judicial independence, protecting truthful public communication, investing in the capacities of government that allow it to serve the people fairly and efficiently. These tasks are not glamorous, and they are not always rewarded by political incentives, but they are the work that determines whether a democracy endures.\
\
To meet that responsibility, a candidate must be honest about the tests they will face. Some will be public: debates that reward heat over clarity, opponents who appeal to fear rather than reason, media cycles that flatten complexity and elevate spectacle. Some will be private: moments when loyalty is demanded at the expense of conscience, when a vote threatens political standing, when telling the truth carries a cost. In those moments, voters need to know who you are. They need to know what anchors you. They need to know that you recognize the difference between political survival and constitutional duty\'97and that you will choose the latter every time.\
\
A campaign in 2026 must also model the kind of politics the country needs from its leaders. Speak clearly about what government owes the people: care that meets them in crisis, education that prepares their children, safety and justice that treat everyone with dignity, belonging that binds communities together, preparation for the challenges ahead, and a republic strong enough to safeguard all of it. These are not partisan ambitions. They are the common expectations of a self-governing nation. When you speak about them, speak in terms of responsibility, not charity. Voters do not need promises; they need partners in the long work of repair.\
\
Candidates must also understand the civic terrain on which they campaign. Disinformation will attempt to blur the stakes. Polarization will tempt you to divide rather than explain. Some will urge you to escalate grievances rather than address them. Resist these pressures. A campaign is your first act of governance. The habits you cultivate now\'97the clarity with which you communicate, the fairness with which you argue, the consistency with which you honor the facts\'97will shape how you serve if elected. Voters are watching not only what you stand for, but how you stand for it.\
\
You must also prepare for a truth that many candidates prefer to ignore: 
\f2\b you will be disliked by some, and you will be opposed by many, precisely because you intend to govern with integrity.
\f1\b0  That is not failure; it is the cost of seriousness. If you pursue structural reform, you will confront institutions accustomed to impunity and interests accustomed to advantage. If you defend democratic norms, you will encounter those who gained more from their violation. If you protect independent oversight, truthful communication, and constitutional limits, you will be told that you are na\'efve or disloyal. Do not mistake these pressures for signs that you are off course. They are indications that you are doing the work the moment requires.\
\
Your campaign must be rooted in service rather than self. Voters will sense whether you are running for recognition or for responsibility. They will sense whether you treat public office as a platform or as a trust. They will sense whether you are prepared to lose an election for the sake of the republic, rather than win one at its expense. The strongest candidates are those who speak with humility and resolve, who do not inflate their promises but clarify their commitments, who describe not only what they will fight for but what they will restrain themselves from doing. A republic survives as much through the discipline of its leaders as through the laws that bind them.\
\
Finally, remember that 
\f2\b your candidacy is an act of national stewardship
\f1\b0 . You are offering yourself as one of the people to whom citizens will entrust their future. Treat that trust as sacred. Earn it with candor, steady judgment, a willingness to listen, and a readiness to do the unglamorous work of strengthening the institutions that protect every person\'92s dignity and rights. The country needs leaders who can stand firm without being rigid, who can speak the truth without cruelty, who can compromise without surrendering principle, and who can place the republic\'92s health above their own ambition.\
\
If you can do that, step forward. If you possess the stamina, the moral courage, the patriotism, and the selflessness for the work ahead, the country needs you\'97whether you are twenty-five or seventy-five, whether you come from public service or private life, whether you have held office before or never imagined you would. The seats are open. The moment is waiting. The republic needs custodians who do not flinch at the weight of responsibility but carry it with dignity and resolve.\
\
Your campaign will be the first test. Your service, if granted by the people, will be the next. In both, the country asks only one thing: 
\f2\b be worthy of the power you seek.}