{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 .SFNS-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red14\green14\blue14;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c6700\c6700\c6700;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf0 A republic exists so that a free people may govern themselves in peace, dignity, and fairness across generations. That is its purpose. Everything else\'97every branch, office, election, and safeguard\'97exists to make that purpose real. A citizen who remembers this sees politics not as spectacle but as stewardship. That memory changes how power looks.\
A republic keeps its promises: justice that is equal, peace that is secure, safety that is shared, the common good strengthened, and liberty guarded for all. These promises are not poetry. They are the public\'92s expectations of the state they built. They are the standard by which every law, budget, and policy can be judged.\
A republic must function. Voting must count every voice. Institutions must answer to law, not to personal will. Governments must solve real problems and prepare for future ones. These are not luxuries of good times. They are the machinery that allows democracy to work at all.\
A republic must deliver. Care for the vulnerable, education that expands opportunity, safety rooted in justice, belonging that binds communities, preparation for tomorrow, and a government competent enough to protect the common good\'97these are the daily measures of whether self-government keeps faith with its people. They are how citizens feel the Constitution in their lives.\
A republic depends on the moral floor. Leaders must act with character, ethics, restraint, truthfulness, good faith, and stewardship. These are not soft virtues. They are the guardrails that keep power from devouring principle. Without them, every safeguard becomes a lever for personal gain. Without them, trust collapses.\
A republic requires clarity from its citizens. Elections are the moment when the people reclaim their authority and decide whether the system will drift, decay, or renew. The choice is never abstract. It is always about whether the country is moving toward its promises or away from them. Every ballot is a verdict on that direction.\
A republic lives only when the people who inherit it choose to tend it. Stewardship is not constant vigilance; it is periodic courage. It is the willingness to remember what is at stake, to judge leaders by the weight of their obligations, and to vote with the long view in mind. It is the choice to act as an owner, not a spectator.\
A one-page republic is a compass, not a map. It offers direction in moments when the noise of politics obscures the essentials. Follow it, and the path becomes clearer: protect the structure, strengthen the deliverables, uphold the moral floor, and choose leaders who understand that public power exists for the public good. That is the work of a free people.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 The republic is yours. The next choice is yours. The future is yours.}