{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 .SFNS-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red14\green14\blue14;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c6700\c6700\c6700;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf2 Every democracy depends on the strength of its machinery. Ideals can inspire, and public spirit can sustain, but without institutions that work, a republic cannot keep its promises. Over the past year, Americans have felt what happens when the machinery falters\'97when agencies are hollowed out, when courts tilt toward power, when elections strain under pressure, when oversight erodes, and when the rules that once restrained excess begin to feel optional. The damage has been steady, visible, and unsettling. Yet the real lesson is not the scale of the harm but the clarity of the remedy. Democracies can be repaired, but only if their structures are strong enough to carry the weight of self-government.\cf0 \
This part of the book turns to that work. It focuses on the structural reforms first laid out in American Restoration, the core repairs that allow a democracy to function as intended. These reforms are not abstract. They touch the institutions that shape daily life: the fairness of elections, the independence of courts, the integrity of justice, the reliability of public services, the stewardship of information, and the ability of government to make decisions based on law rather than personal loyalty. They form the foundation on which every other promise of the republic rests. Without them, even the best ideals remain out of reach.\
The Five Phases of democratic repair make clear why this part matters. Stabilization and protection are underway in communities across the country, but restoration requires deliberate action\'97changes in law, procedure, oversight, and design that can rebuild what has been damaged and strengthen what has been stretched. Without restoration, democracy remains vulnerable. It wobbles between crisis and crisis, able to respond but unable to recover. It never quite finds its footing. Restoration is the phase that moves the country from resistance to construction, from crisis management to institutional renewal.\
\cf2 For many readers, structural reform can seem distant, even technocratic. It is easy to assume that the future of democracy turns only on elections or civic energy. But the truth is simpler and more demanding: the rules determine the reality. When institutions are independent and accountable, leaders are limited, rights are protected, and corruption is constrained. When institutions are weakened, even the best leaders struggle to govern effectively, and the worst find opportunities to entrench themselves. Structure is not a side issue. It is the architecture that makes everything else possible.\cf0 \
This part of the book does not ask the reader to become a constitutional scholar or a legal technician. It asks something more basic: to understand how the pieces fit together and why repairing them is essential. Structural reform is not about partisan advantage or ideological preference. It is about ensuring that the republic is strong enough to deliver on its most basic obligations\'97fairness, stability, accountability, and the capacity to serve the public good. Those are the minimum terms of a working democracy.\
\cf2 The chapters that follow explain how a modern democracy can protect elections, constrain power, strengthen institutions, and rebuild trust. Each reform is achievable. Each has been tested in other contexts or in earlier moments of American history. And each depends on the choices citizens make in the year ahead. If the midterms of 2026 bring leaders committed to these reforms, the country will have the tools it needs to move from crisis to repair. If not, the machinery will continue to erode, and the promises of the Constitution will drift further out of reach.\cf0 \
\cf2 This is the moment to restore the foundations. The country has the vision, the experience, and the civic energy to do it. What remains is the will. The path forward begins with understanding the machinery that carries the republic\'97and choosing leaders who will repair it.}