{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0\stshfdbch0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 .SFNS-Regular{\*\falt System Font Regular};\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 EBGaramond-Regular{\*\falt EB Garamond Regular};
\f3\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red14\green14\blue14;}
{\stylesheet {\s0 Normal;}}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c6700\c6700\c6700;}
{\info
{\author }
{\creatim\yr2025\mo11\dy24\hr8\min50\sec6\timesinceref785631006}
{\revtim\yr2025\mo11\dy24\hr8\min50\sec19\timesinceref785631019}}\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf2 Here is the revised, end-of-era carry-forward table for all sixty traits, with the adjustments baked in and totals recomputed. These scores are calibrated explicitly to conditions at the signing of the Constitution (1787), using the \'93harder to move up\'94 rule for high Presence and Difficulty.\
\
I have left your trait names and conceptual definitions intact. Only the numeric values are changed.\
\
At the end I\'92ll give you the new category totals and grand total.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2 \cf0 \uc0\u11835 
\f1 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf2 \
Carry-Forward Table\
Era: Plymouth Rock to Just Before the Signing of the Constitution (1620\'961787)\
End-of-Era Baseline: Conditions at the Signing of the Constitution\
\
Category I: Power and Authority\
\pard\tqr\tx440\tx600\li600\fi-600\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f3 \cf2 	1.	Disregard for the Common Good \'96 6 \'96 1.0\
	2.	Centralization of Executive Power \'96 3 \'96 0.5\
	3.	Absence of Electoral Integrity \'96 7 \'96 1.0\
	4.	Demonization of Opponents \'96 5 \'96 0.5\
	5.	Cult of Personality \'96 2 \'96 0.0\
	6.	Militarization of Politics \'96 5 \'96 1.0\
	7.	Emergency Powers Normalized \'96 4 \'96 1.0\
	8.	Manipulation of Fear \'96 6 \'96 0.5\
	9.	Foreign Influence over Government \'96 3 \'96 0.5\
	10.	Consolidation of Propaganda Control \'96 2 \'96 0.0\
	11.	Removal of Political Opposition \'96 4 \'96 0.5\
	12.	Use of Violence for Political Ends \'96 6 \'96 1.0\
\
Total Presence (Category I): 53.0\
Total Difficulty (Category I): 7.5\
Category Total: 60.5\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2 \cf0 \uc0\u11835 
\f1 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf2 \
Category II: Institutions\
\pard\tqr\tx440\tx600\li600\fi-600\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f3 \cf2 	13.	Legislative Subordination \'96 2 \'96 0.5\
	14.	Attacks on Judicial Independence \'96 4 \'96 1.0\
	15.	Politicized Civil Service \'96 3 \'96 0.5\
	16.	Hollowing of Institutional Capacity \'96 2 \'96 0.5\
	17.	Closure or Defunding of Civic Institutions \'96 3 \'96 0.5\
	18.	Electoral Manipulation \'96 6 \'96 1.0\
	19.	Intimidation of Electoral Officials \'96 2 \'96 0.5\
	20.	Undermining of Election Integrity \'96 4 \'96 0.5\
	21.	Disenfranchisement \'96 8 \'96 1.5\
	22.	Erosion of Local Government \'96 3 \'96 0.5\
	23.	Suppression of Political Organizing \'96 5 \'96 1.0\
	24.	Delegitimizing Independent Institutions \'96 5 \'96 0.5\
\
Total Presence (Category II): 47.0\
Total Difficulty (Category II): 8.5\
Category Total: 55.5\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2 \cf0 \uc0\u11835 
\f1 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf2 \
Category III: Law and Rights\
\pard\tqr\tx440\tx600\li600\fi-600\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f3 \cf2 	25.	Politicized Law Enforcement \'96 5 \'96 1.0\
	26.	Two-Tiered Justice System \'96 8 \'96 1.5\
	27.	Retaliation Against Critics \'96 6 \'96 1.0\
	28.	Criminalization of Dissent \'96 7 \'96 1.0\
	29.	Legal Harassment and Weaponized Bureaucracy \'96 4 \'96 0.5\
	30.	Abandonment of Rule of Law \'96 3 \'96 0.5\
	31.	Corruption and Self-Dealing \'96 4 \'96 0.5\
	32.	Elimination of Legal Recourse \'96 5 \'96 1.0\
	33.	Suspension of Civil Liberties \'96 6 \'96 1.0\
	34.	Torture, Disappearance, and Political Imprisonment \'96 5 \'96 1.0\
	35.	Targeting of Marginalized Groups \'96 9 \'96 2.0\
	36.	Erosion of Equal Protection \'96 8 \'96 1.5\
\
Total Presence (Category III): 70.0\
Total Difficulty (Category III): 12.5\
Category Total: 82.5\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2 \cf0 \uc0\u11835 
\f1 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf2 \
Category IV: Economics and Resources\
\pard\tqr\tx440\tx600\li600\fi-600\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f3 \cf2 	37.	Economic Inequality as Strategy \'96 4 \'96 1.0\
	38.	Crony Capitalism \'96 3 \'96 1.0\
	39.	Regulatory Capture \'96 2 \'96 0.5\
	40.	Oligarchy of Wealth \'96 4 \'96 1.0\
	41.	Privatization of Public Goods \'96 2 \'96 0.5\
	42.	Structural Tax Injustice \'96 3 \'96 1.0\
	43.	Extraction without Representation \'96 2 \'96 0.5\
	44.	Resource Capture \'96 4 \'96 1.0\
	45.	Manipulated Scarcity \'96 2 \'96 0.5\
	46.	Displacement and Dispossession \'96 4 \'96 1.0\
	47.	Enslavement for Profit \'96 5 \'96 2.0\
	48.	Labor Suppression \'96 4 \'96 1.0\
\
Total Presence (Category IV): 39.0\
Total Difficulty (Category IV): 11.0\
Category Total: 50.0\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2 \cf0 \uc0\u11835 
\f1 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf2 \
Category V: Civil Society and Culture\
\pard\tqr\tx440\tx600\li600\fi-600\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f3 \cf2 	49.	Suppression of Dissent \'96 4 \'96 1.0\
	50.	Compelled Conformity \'96 4 \'96 1.0\
	51.	Institutionalized Religion \'96 4 \'96 1.0\
	52.	Control of Information \'96 2 \'96 0.5\
	53.	Political Disinformation \'96 2 \'96 0.5\
	54.	Surveillance and Social Control \'96 3 \'96 1.0\
	55.	Militarization of Public Life \'96 4 \'96 1.0\
	56.	Demonization of the Other \'96 5 \'96 1.0\
	57.	Cult of National Glory \'96 2 \'96 0.5\
	58.	Civic Disengagement \'96 4 \'96 1.0\
	59.	Normalization of Injustice \'96 8 \'96 1.5\
	60.	Loss of Civic Imagination \'96 4 \'96 1.0\
\
Total Presence (Category V): 46.0\
Total Difficulty (Category V): 11.0\
Category Total: 57.0\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2 \cf0 \uc0\u11835 
\f1 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf2 \
Grand Totals (End of Era \'96 1787)\
\
Total Presence (all categories): 255.0\
Total Difficulty (all categories): 50.5\
Grand Total: 305.5 (out of 720)\
\
On your \'931 point = 1 minute past noon\'94 rule, that gives:\
\
305.5 minutes past noon \uc0\u8776  5:05 p.m. on the Democracy Clock at the signing of the Constitution.\
\
If you\'92d like, we can now:\
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	Freeze these numbers as the locked Era 1 baseline, and\
	\'95	Drop a short, precise paragraph into the Rock-to-Philly chapter that states:\
\pard\tqr\tx500\tx660\li660\fi-660\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	the time at Plymouth Rock (conceptual), and\
	\'95	the measured time at Philadelphia in 1787 (5:05 p.m.),\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li660\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 so the narrative spine and the math are fully aligned.}