{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26 \cf0 In Week 25, the story of Trump\'92s second term tightened around a single pattern: power moving inward, constraint moving outward. The week\'92s events did not just add new abuses; they fused earlier strands into a more coherent system. Courts, agencies, and armed forces were drawn into a shared project in which law, policy, and force served the same narrow center. Immigration, disaster, and trade became the main stages on which this new order played out. From below, it often looked like chaos. It was instead a deliberate thinning of the space where ordinary people, professional expertise, and elected bodies could still stand in the way.\
\
At the start of Week 25, the Democracy Clock stood at 7:52 p.m. By the end, it read 7:57 p.m., a movement of 4.9 minutes toward midnight. That shift reflects more than the volume of events. It marks a step change in how power is held and used. The Supreme Court\'92s decisions on presidential immunity, nationwide injunctions, and mass federal layoffs, combined with the administration\'92s actions on tariffs, war-making, immigration, and the civil service, pushed several core traits of democratic decay to new levels. Law became more clearly a weapon, not a limit. Security forces were more openly aligned with regime preservation. The civil service was treated as a partisan workforce. And the tools of emergency and foreign affairs were normalized as routine instruments of domestic rule.\
\
The most consequential development of the week came from the Supreme Court. In Trump v. United States, the Court held that a former president enjoys absolute immunity from criminal prosecution for actions within his \'93conclusive and preclusive\'94 constitutional authority, and presumptive immunity for all official acts. In the same span, the Court narrowed the use of nationwide injunctions, lifted lower-court blocks on mass federal layoffs, and allowed the administration to proceed with its \'93Department of Government Efficiency\'94 workforce optimization order. These rulings did not simply favor one litigant. They rewrote the practical balance between the branches. A president who can act with broad criminal immunity, face fewer nationwide checks, and restructure the bureaucracy at will is a president whose power is no longer meaningfully bounded by law. That is a structural break.\
\
The Court\'92s alignment with executive and elite interests was not limited to immunity and layoffs. It also upheld decisions that allowed deportations to third countries with no real connection to the deportees, and it stayed injunctions that had frozen reductions in force across nineteen federal agencies. At the same time, it vacated an FTC consumer-protection rule on procedural grounds, weakening a regulator that had tried to make it easier for people to cancel subscriptions. In each case, the Court\'92s reasoning may have sounded technical, but the direction was clear. Structural tools that once allowed courts to halt sweeping executive actions were narrowed, while tools that enabled the executive to reshape the state and its workforce were freed. The law\'92s form remained; its function shifted.\
\
Yet the judiciary was not monolithic. In New Hampshire, a federal judge blocked Trump\'92s executive order ending birthright citizenship for children born to undocumented parents, certifying a class action that could protect tens of thousands of children. Another federal court blocked a provision in Trump\'92s tax-and-spending bill that would have defunded Planned Parenthood by cutting off Medicaid reimbursements, preserving access to care while litigation proceeds. The Supreme Court itself refused to let Florida enforce a state law criminalizing undocumented immigrants entering the state, affirming federal primacy over immigration. These rulings did not reverse the week\'92s net movement, but they showed that pockets of judicial resistance remained, especially where core constitutional text\'97like the Fourteenth Amendment\'92s citizenship clause\'97was at stake. Some lines still held.\
\
If the Court was reshaping the legal terrain, the executive was racing to occupy it. Trump used a national emergency declaration to impose tariffs, bypassing Congress and treating economic policy as a field for unilateral action. He ordered a military strike on Iran without seeking congressional approval, despite criticism from within his own party that only Congress can declare war. An earlier executive order had already asserted that the Constitution vests foreign policy solely in the president, sidelining the traditional role of Congress in treaties and war powers. In parallel, the administration instructed the Department of Justice not to enforce a TikTok ban for seventy-five days while it \'93reviewed\'94 the law, signaling that statutes themselves were optional when they conflicted with executive preference. Law became a suggestion, not a boundary.\
\
These moves were not isolated. They sat alongside a presidential memo limiting the classified information shared with Congress, further weakening legislative oversight of national security and foreign affairs. They also coincided with the firing of the NSA director and his deputy, and the removal of six National Security Council staffers, after a pro-Trump influencer supplied a list of supposed disloyal officials. The message to the national security bureaucracy was plain. Expertise and continuity mattered less than loyalty, and the president\'92s circle\'97formal or informal\'97would decide who stayed. In such a system, the line between foreign and domestic power blurs. The same tools used to manage war and diplomacy become tools for managing internal dissent.\
\
Nowhere was the fusion of law, force, and politics clearer than in immigration. The administration terminated Temporary Protected Status for roughly 72,000 Hondurans and 4,000 Nicaraguans, ending a legal shield that had been in place since Hurricane Mitch. The Supreme Court issued decisions allowing migrants to be deported to third countries like South Sudan, even when they had no ties there. ICE detained long-term residents and asylum seekers during routine check-ins and green-card interviews, including a Canadian mother of three U.S.-born children and an Egyptian-born imam whose asylum had been revoked on contested \'93material support\'94 grounds. A farmworker activist in Washington state was held in detention on an old deportation order, in what supporters saw as retaliation for his organizing. Immigration law became a test bed for rule by fear.\
\
At the same time, immigration enforcement became more openly ideological. Trump ordered the Department of Justice to target political opponents and critics, including measures like stripping their Secret Service protection. The DOJ\'92s Civil Rights Division filed suit against California over policies allowing transgender athletes to compete in girls\'92 sports, framing state inclusion rules as violations of Title IX. Another DOJ initiative issued over twenty subpoenas to clinics and doctors providing gender-affirming care to minors, under a memo that conflated such care with female genital mutilation. In Massachusetts, a trial began over an \'93ideological deportation\'94 policy targeting foreign students for pro-Palestinian views. Together, these actions showed law being used not as a neutral framework but as a weapon against disfavored speech, identities, and communities.\
\
The machinery of immigration enforcement itself grew more opaque and more violent. A new budget reconciliation law poured $170.7 billion into immigration enforcement, including $51.6 billion for border wall construction and a 265% increase in ICE\'92s detention budget, making ICE the largest federal law enforcement agency in U.S. history. At the same time, the administration dismantled key oversight offices within the Department of Homeland Security: the Office for Civil Rights and Civil Liberties, the Office of the Immigration Detention Ombudsman, and the Office of the Citizenship and Immigration Services Ombudsman. These offices had investigated complaints and reported on detention conditions. Their removal left a rapidly expanding enforcement apparatus with fewer internal checks just as detention centers were becoming severely overcrowded and unsafe. Scale rose as scrutiny fell.\
\
On the ground, that combination of money and impunity translated into scenes that blurred the line between policing and war. In Los Angeles\'92s MacArthur Park, federal officers and about ninety California National Guard troops conducted a raid in armored vehicles, with agents in tactical gear and on horseback. The operation, broadcast live, resulted in no known arrests but left residents and local leaders describing it as a \'93reality TV spectacle\'94 and a tool of intimidation. A federal judge later issued a temporary restraining order limiting the scope of such raids, requiring reasonable suspicion and banning racial profiling, but the images had already done their work. In San Francisco, an unmarked ICE SUV drove through a crowd of protesters outside immigration court, injuring at least one person, while agents without visible badges used rifles, batons, and pepper spray. Local police did not intervene. Protest space shrank under the weight of security theater.\
\
Elsewhere, federal agents and National Guard troops raided cannabis farms in southern California, using chemical munitions to disperse demonstrators and blocking a member of Congress from entering the site. In Florida, approximately seventy National Guard troops were deployed to operate a new detention facility in the Everglades, nicknamed \'93Alligator Alcatraz,\'94 where detainees reported maggot-infested food, no running water, and exposure to extreme weather. Two hundred Marines were sent to Florida to assist ICE, and a pilot program placed ICE agents on Marine Corps bases. In Texas, ten people were charged with attempted murder after an ambush on ICE agents, underscoring how the cycle of militarized enforcement and community fear can escalate into violence on both sides. In this environment, security forces were no longer seen as neutral protectors. They were instruments of a political project.\
\
The same week, federal power was turned against disfavored jurisdictions. Trump had already taken control of California\'92s National Guard to quell mostly peaceful protests over immigration raids in Los Angeles, over the objections of the governor. Now he suggested that the federal government could \'93take over\'94 New York City if voters elected a progressive mayor, and hinted at similar control over Washington, D.C. These statements had no clear legal basis, but they mattered as signals. They told cities and states that their autonomy was contingent on political alignment. At the same time, Texas\'92s governor announced plans to redraw congressional districts to secure more Republican seats at the administration\'92s urging, while the Miami City Commission voted to cancel its 2025 municipal elections and extend current officials\'92 terms by a year without voter input. These moves were justified as cost-saving or turnout-boosting, but they functioned as structural manipulation of representation. The rules of the game were being rewritten mid-play.\
\
While force and law were being bent inward, the neutral machinery of government was being hollowed out. The Supreme Court\'92s green light for mass federal layoffs allowed the administration to proceed with reductions in force across nineteen agencies. The State Department announced plans to lay off nearly 15% of its domestic staff, about 1,800 employees, and began issuing termination notices to more than 1,350 workers as part of a reorganization aligned with \'93America First\'94 priorities. These layoffs hit both civil and Foreign Service employees, weakening diplomatic capacity at a time of global conflict and crisis. At the National Security Council, cuts and purges left key officials blindsided by Pentagon moves, contributing to a dysfunctional policymaking process. Capacity drained away as loyalty tests spread.\
\
The same pattern appeared in domestic agencies. The National Weather Service lost more than 600 employees to layoffs and early retirements, leaving storm- and flood-prone offices understaffed. Cuts to NOAA and the National Science Foundation removed hundreds of millions of dollars from weather forecasting and climate research. In Texas, flash floods killed at least eighty people and left dozens missing after nearly a foot of rain fell overnight. Local officials blamed the NWS staffing cuts for inadequate warnings, while former NWS directors warned that the agency could no longer provide round-the-clock coverage. FEMA, meanwhile, was hamstrung by a new rule from Homeland Security Secretary Kristi Noem requiring her personal approval for contracts over $100,000. That rule delayed the deployment of Urban Search and Rescue teams to Texas for more than seventy-two hours. DHS then canceled a $3 million grant meant to improve communication between the NWS and local officials, even as search and rescue operations continued. Disaster response became another site where delay and scarcity could be leveraged.\
\
These were not just management failures. They reflected a deeper shift in how the state understood its obligations. The administration announced plans to dismantle FEMA by the end of the hurricane season, arguing that states and private enterprises were better suited to handle disasters. It opened the Everglades detention center under inhumane conditions, outsourced core functions to military and private actors, and cut funding to USAID in ways that researchers estimated would lead to more than fourteen million deaths globally over five years. Health research institutes at home saw their budgets slashed, prompting warnings of a \'93brewing health catastrophe.\'94 In this model, public goods\'97disaster response, health, weather forecasting, diplomacy\'97were no longer treated as shared infrastructure. They were fields to be downsized, privatized, or repurposed for enforcement.\
\
Economic policy followed the same logic, privileging capital and connected interests while shifting risk onto the public. The nearly 1,000-page budget reconciliation bill that Trump signed made the 2017 tax cuts for the wealthy and corporations permanent, cut $890 billion from Medicaid and $230 billion from food assistance, and allocated vast sums to immigration enforcement and border wall construction. The law was projected to increase the national deficit by $3.4 trillion over a decade, yet the administration claimed it was the \'93most popular bill ever signed,\'94 despite polls showing broad disapproval. New legislation imposed work requirements on Medicaid recipients, with officials suggesting that these beneficiaries could replace deported migrant farmworkers in the fields, even as experts warned that such a substitution was unrealistic and punitive. Hardship for the poor became a design choice, not a side effect.\
\
At the same time, Trump announced a cascade of tariffs: 25% on imports from Japan, South Korea, Malaysia, and Tunisia; 30% on South Africa and Bosnia and Herzegovina; 35% on Bangladesh and Serbia; 36% on Cambodia and Thailand; 40% on Laos and Myanmar; 35% on Canadian goods; and a 50% tariff on copper. Additional tariffs targeted Brazil, the Philippines, Brunei, Moldova, Algeria, Libya, Iraq, Sri Lanka, and countries aligning with BRICS. Some tariffs were delayed, paused, or extended through executive orders, with Trump describing deadlines as \'93firm, but not 100% firm.\'94 He also launched an investigation into Brazil\'92s social media regulations under Section 301, framing that country\'92s efforts to police online disinformation as \'93secret and unlawful censorship.\'94 These moves created uncertainty for businesses and allies, but they also created leverage. Tariffs became tools to punish foreign courts for trying allies like Jair Bolsonaro, to reward favored industries, and to signal strength to domestic audiences.\
\
The beneficiaries of this economic order were clear. A new Pentagon budget pushed annual military spending past $1 trillion, with more than half of discretionary funds flowing to contractors. Dark money from a major energy company was revealed to have funded campaigns that sabotaged Michigan\'92s COVID policies. The IRS announced that churches could endorse political candidates without losing tax-exempt status, effectively giving religious institutions a privileged channel for partisan mobilization that other nonprofits lacked. In education, the White House signed an executive order promoting AI in classrooms and enlisted sixty-eight technology companies to provide tools, funding, and curriculum under a \'93Pledge to America\'92s Youth.\'94 The American Federation of Teachers accepted $23 million from AI firms to create a National Academy for AI Instruction. OpenAI and Google offered free access to their tools for students. These initiatives promised innovation, but they also embedded corporate platforms deep inside public education, with little input from educators and few safeguards for civic formation.\
\
Information itself became a contested terrain. In the wake of the Texas floods, DHS accused mainstream media of \'93deliberate lying\'94 about the disaster, even as staffing cuts and canceled grants hampered federal forecasting and communication. Texas officials criticized the National Weather Service for underestimating rainfall, while the administration\'92s own budget choices had weakened the agency. At the Department of Health and Human Services, Secretary Robert F. Kennedy Jr. spread misinformation about measles and the MMR vaccine, claimed that natural infection was better than vaccination, and launched a large-scale autism research initiative premised on a discredited vaccine link. He fired all seventeen members of a key CDC vaccine advisory panel, replaced them with skeptics, and promoted unproven treatments like vitamins and cod liver oil for measles. Lawsuits from medical organizations and a pregnant physician challenged these policies, but measles cases surged to record levels, with at least 1,277 confirmed infections. Public health became another arena where ideology overrode evidence.\
\
The Justice Department\'92s handling of the Jeffrey Epstein case showed how information about elite wrongdoing could be controlled. A joint DOJ-FBI memo concluded that Epstein died by suicide and that there was no \'93client list\'94 or evidence of blackmail. The memo noted that the government held about 300 gigabytes of evidence but would not release much of it because it contained identifying details about victims. House Democrats demanded the release of files mentioning Trump and the second volume of a special counsel\'92s report on classified documents, accusing Attorney General Pam Bondi of shielding the president. Right-wing influencers, who had expected the documents to implicate political enemies, turned their anger on the administration for failing to deliver. In this way, secrecy served both to protect elites and to deepen distrust among the president\'92s own base.\
\
Inside the Justice Department, a whistleblower pulled back the curtain on how law was being bent. Former DOJ lawyer Erez Reuveni submitted text messages to the Senate Judiciary Committee showing that a senior official, Emil Bove, had advised lawyers to ignore court orders blocking deportations to El Salvador. Reuveni\'92s complaint alleged that Bove instructed subordinates to defy a federal judge\'92s injunction, even as Bove was being considered for a seat on the U.S. Court of Appeals. At the same time, Trump nominated Bove to the Third Circuit, signaling that loyalty in bending the law was a credential for promotion. The Department also sued California over transgender athletes in girls\'92 sports, issued subpoenas to gender-affirming care providers, and targeted Palestinian activists and journalists through immigration detention. Charges against one journalist, Mario Guevara, were dropped for lack of evidence, but he remained in ICE custody despite being legally present and seeking a green card. Whistleblowers and critics saw that speaking up carried real risk.\
\
Religion and memory were drawn into this new order as well. The IRS\'92s shift on churches and political endorsements, combined with Trump\'92s rhetoric about hating Democrats who opposed his budget bill, fused religious identity with partisan loyalty. At the same time, the week\'92s events were framed against a longer arc of constitutional struggle. References to the Dred Scott decision, the Fourteenth Amendment, the creation of the Department of Justice to fight the Ku Klux Klan, the overturning of Roe v. Wade, and justices\'92 calls to revisit protections for contraception and same-sex marriage reminded observers that the current assault on birthright citizenship and civil rights did not arise in a vacuum. It was part of a recurring contest over whether equality and federal protection would be real or merely promised.\
\
There were, amid this consolidation, acts of resistance and accountability. Planned Parenthood sued over funding cuts and won a temporary injunction. Medical organizations sued HHS over vaccine policy changes. A coalition of eighteen states filed an amicus brief challenging mass immigration raids in Los Angeles. A federal judge blocked Trump\'92s birthright citizenship order and certified a class action. The Supreme Court refused to let Florida enforce its anti-immigration law. A Palestinian activist filed a $20 million claim against the administration for false imprisonment and defamation. Trump lost his appeal in the E. Jean Carroll case, with courts upholding a $5 million judgment for sexual abuse and defamation. These actions did not stop the clock from moving, but they showed that some institutions and individuals still used the tools available to them. Resistance persisted, even as the cost rose.\
\
Looking ahead from Week 25, several processes were already in motion. The dismantling of FEMA was scheduled to proceed by the end of the hurricane season. The termination of TPS for Hondurans and Nicaraguans would take effect in early September, displacing tens of thousands. New tariffs were set to begin on August 1, with letters going out to trade partners and importers. The State Department\'92s rolling reductions in force would continue, shrinking the diplomatic corps. Lawsuits over vaccine policy, Planned Parenthood funding, ideological deportations, and transgender athletes would move through the courts, testing how far judicial resistance could go in the face of a Supreme Court that had just expanded presidential immunity. Immigration raids, detention conditions, and the use of military forces in domestic enforcement were likely to remain flashpoints, as were efforts to redraw districts in Texas and to cancel or delay elections in cities like Miami. The trajectory was set; the pace was the open question.\
\
By the end of the week, the Democracy Clock\'92s new time\'977:57 p.m.\'97captured a country in which the formal shell of democracy still stood, but its inner workings had shifted. Elections were still scheduled, but money, media, and now churches were being marshaled to shape outcomes. Courts still issued rulings, but the highest court had placed the presidency above ordinary criminal law and had narrowed the tools available to check him. Agencies still functioned, but many were being stripped of staff, expertise, and oversight, or captured by private and ideological interests. Security forces still wore uniforms, but their deployments signaled allegiance to power rather than to public safety. In such a landscape, rights did not vanish overnight. They became harder to exercise, more dangerous to claim, and more dependent on the courage of those willing to stand in narrowing spaces.\
\
Week 25 matters in the larger arc of the term because it shows the walls closing in from several directions at once. Executive power, judicial doctrine, administrative structure, and armed force are no longer separate arenas where democracy can win or lose in isolation. They are now parts of a single system that rewards loyalty, punishes dissent, and treats law as a flexible instrument of rule. The clock\'92s movement this week is not only a measure of damage done. It is a warning about how quickly the remaining space for repair can shrink when institutions that once checked each other begin to move in concert. At 7:57 p.m., there is still time on the Democracy Clock. But the hour is later, and the work of holding the line has grown heavier.}