{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 .SFNS-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red14\green14\blue14;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c6700\c6700\c6700;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf2 A democracy cannot endure if belonging becomes a privilege. The promise of self-government depends on the idea that everyone who calls the country home can participate in its life, claim its protections, and see themselves reflected in its laws. When a government draws lines between the valued and the excluded\'97between those deemed fully American and those treated as conditional guests\'97the republic shifts from a shared project to a gated domain. Belonging is not sentiment. It is the condition that allows people to live without fear that their place in the country can be revoked by policy, prejudice, or political mood.\
\
Over the past year, that condition has been strained by actions that defined membership ever more narrowly. Executive orders sought to end birthright citizenship, rewiring the 14th Amendment by decree. Refugee admissions were suspended nationwide. Federal policy intensified enforcement priorities and revived programs designed to push asylum seekers back across the border without hearings. Millions were told the language they spoke at home rendered them suspect, as federal agencies and workers faced new English-only mandates. \'93Sanctuary\'94 jurisdictions were threatened with funding cuts. Visa programs were ordered to screen for political hostility, with criteria broad enough to become tools of exclusion. Each step sent the same message: belonging is contingent, and the circle of the accepted is shrinking.\
\
Belonging cannot survive under those terms. A nation that divides people into higher and lower categories of legitimacy corrodes the idea of equal citizenship on which democracy rests. When birthright citizenship is questioned, every generation becomes provisional. When refugee programs are frozen, moral leadership collapses. When English is declared the sole language of public life, millions are told that their ability to participate is conditional on conformity. When asylum seekers are turned away under mass-suspension authority, the law\'92s promise is replaced by discretion. And when federal enforcement expands its reach without safeguards, whole communities learn that approaching government\'97whether to work, study, travel, or seek protection\'97carries risk rather than reassurance.\
\
A nation that belongs to everyone must begin with clarity about who its protections cover. Birthright citizenship\'97rooted in Reconstruction and reaffirmed for more than a century\'97cannot be rewritten by executive order. Its purpose was to ensure that membership could not be denied based on ancestry or status, and that no administration could unmake an American by changing the rules of admission. Safeguarding this principle requires legislation reaffirming that citizenship by birth is automatic, unqualified, and beyond the reach of unilateral action. When citizenship is secure, the country becomes stable enough for people to invest their lives in it.\
\
Belonging also requires humane and lawful treatment of those who seek refuge. Suspensions of refugee admissions leave families stranded and communities waiting for neighbors who never arrive. A functional refugee system must set annual admissions through transparent, evidence-based processes grounded in capacity, not politics. State and local partners must have a guaranteed role in resettlement planning, and asylum procedures must be governed by law\'97offering hearings, access to counsel, and protection from rapid-expulsion policies that conflate migration with threat. A nation that grants safety to those fleeing persecution does not weaken itself. It strengthens the moral coherence that underlies democratic life.\
\
Language access is another frontier of belonging. Policies that permit agencies to restrict services to English alone exclude millions of residents from basic civic participation\'97from filling out forms to receiving medical instructions to accessing disaster assistance. A democracy cannot require fluency as a precondition for rights. Government services must meet people where they are, providing multilingual access in health care, education, emergency response, and civic processes. English-only rules do not create unity; they create silence. Inclusion requires communication that recognizes the country as it truly is: linguistically diverse, woven from many origins, held together by commitment rather than uniformity.\
\
Immigration enforcement presents similar challenges. Sweeping orders that characterize migration as \'93invasion,\'94 revive mass-return programs, or direct agencies to prosecute immigration offenses at maximum intensity increase fear without increasing safety. Enforcement that destabilizes communities cannot be the basis of belonging. A humane system requires proportionality, prioritization of genuine threats, due process for all individuals, and protection for long-established residents whose ties to the country are deep and enduring. Local jurisdictions that choose to build trust through community-oriented policing must not face punishment for declining to serve as extensions of federal immigration authority. Belonging grows when communities feel safe engaging with the institutions meant to serve them.\
\
The final layer of belonging is cultural rather than administrative: the recognition that a nation\'92s identity is not diminished by diversity. Mandates imposing English-only rules on truck drivers, for example, may seem technical but signal something larger: the narrowing of who counts as fully American. A democracy thrives when its public sphere reflects the contributions of all its people\'97newcomers and multi-generation families, citizens and residents, English speakers and multilingual neighbors alike. Policies that conflate cultural uniformity with national strength misunderstand the source of democratic resilience. A society belongs to everyone only when it recognizes that identity is additive, not subtractive.\
\
For the reader, these issues are not abstract. They determine whether your neighbors hesitate to call an ambulance for fear of immigration checks. Whether a child born in your community grows up believing her citizenship is secure. Whether older relatives can access services in the language they understand best. Whether refugees who would strengthen your town\'92s schools, workforce, or cultural life are kept indefinitely at a distance. Whether the people who grow your food, deliver your goods, or care for your elders feel safe enough to participate in public life. Belonging shapes the texture of daily experience: trust in institutions, confidence in community, and the sense that everyone is part of the \'93we\'94 in \'93We the People.\'94\
\
In the year ahead, the country will decide whether belonging expands or contracts. Candidates can commit to protecting citizenship from political manipulation, restoring refugee admissions, upholding asylum law, and ensuring multilingual access in public services. Communities can insist that enforcement practices build safety rather than fear. Voters can choose leaders who understand that the strength of a democracy lies not in exclusion but in the confidence that every person who calls the country home has a place within it.\
\
A nation belongs to everyone when the rules that govern membership are fair, when the protections that safeguard dignity are universal, and when the institutions that shape daily life recognize the full humanity of all who live within its borders. When belonging is shared, democracy becomes more than a system of government. It becomes a lived reality\'97one in which every person is invited to participate, contribute, and thrive.}