{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26 \cf0 By Week 43, the story is less about a single break than about weight. The Democracy Clock remains at 7:59 p.m., but the hour feels heavier. Power did not lurch forward in a way that forced the hands to move. Instead, it settled more deeply into grooves already cut: law as a shield for allies and a weapon for enemies, basic needs turned into bargaining chips, and truth treated as something to be managed rather than faced. The week\'92s events show a system in which authoritarian habits are no longer shocking, yet the counterforces\'97courts, some members of Congress, civil society\'97still act often enough to keep time from advancing. The habits are familiar now. They are not yet final.\
\
The previous period closed with the clock at 7:59 p.m., a late but not terminal hour. It ends this week at the same time, with no net change in minutes. That stillness does not mean calm. It means that the damage and resistance roughly balanced out. On one side, the executive deepened its use of clemency, prosecutions, and federal funds to protect loyalists and punish critics, while immigration raids and military actions pushed the edge of lawful force. On the other, judges in several jurisdictions blocked or slowed some of the most aggressive moves, Congress forced open a narrow channel of transparency around Jeffrey Epstein\'92s files, and public actors\'97from bishops to local organizers\'97pressed back against cruelty and secrecy. The clock held because the week\'92s harms, though serious, did not yet change the basic structure of power. They hardened patterns already present rather than creating new ones.\
\
The first major development was the endgame of the longest government shutdown in U.S. history and the fight over food. For more than forty days, federal workers went unpaid, air travel frayed, and basic services stalled. Senate Democrats offered a compromise to extend Affordable Care Act subsidies and create a bipartisan health commission, only to see Republicans dismiss it as a \'93nonstarter.\'94 In the end, eight Democrats crossed over to advance a Republican\uc0\u8209 led continuing resolution that funded the government through late January 2026 but left healthcare tax credits to a future, uncertain vote. The Senate\'92s 60\'9640 approval and the House\'92s 222\'96209 passage restored operations, guaranteed back pay, and reversed mass firings of federal workers. Yet the deal also signaled that healthcare for millions could be treated as a bargaining chip rather than a settled right. Power here flowed toward the executive and Senate leadership, who proved that holding the state hostage could extract concessions. Rank\u8209 and\u8209 file workers and low\u8209 income families were forced to absorb the risk.\
\
The shutdown\'92s sharpest edge cut through the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program. The administration refused to use emergency reserves to fund SNAP, even as 42 million Americans faced the loss of food aid. A federal judge ordered the government to distribute full November benefits, then had to repeat himself when the order was ignored. The administration appealed, sought a stay from the First Circuit, and, when that failed, went to the Supreme Court. Justice Ketanji Brown Jackson issued an administrative stay, and the Court later extended a pause on $4 billion in food aid, allowing the administration to continue withholding funds. The USDA then sent memos to states instructing them to \'93immediately undo\'94 any full payments already issued, warning of financial penalties and liability for over\uc0\u8209 issuance. Some states resisted, and another federal judge accused the government of playing \'93vindictive games\'94 and blocked the directive. The tug\u8209 of\u8209 war showed law being used both to deny and to defend subsistence. The executive gained leverage by proving it could weaponize hunger. The judiciary, especially at the district and appellate levels, showed it could still enforce minimum obligations, even as the Supreme Court\'92s stay undercut that effort.\
\
Congress\'92s final shutdown package tried to repair some of this damage. The continuing resolution that became law not only reopened the government but also appropriated SNAP funds through September 2026 and guaranteed back pay for furloughed workers. It halted mass layoffs and reversed terminations that had occurred during the shutdown. Yet the same bill allowed eight Republican senators to sue the government for up to $500,000 over the seizure of their phone logs during the January 6 investigation, a small but telling carve\uc0\u8209 out that turned public legislation into a vehicle for private redress. The measure also left earlier SNAP cuts in place and did nothing to secure the expiring ACA tax credits. In this mix, federal workers and SNAP recipients gained short\u8209 term stability, while the executive and its allies preserved the tools that made the crisis possible. The pattern was clear. Crisis could be resolved, but the structures that allowed it to be manufactured remained intact.\
\
A second, related development was the administration\'92s broader turn to punitive deprivation as a governing tool. Beyond SNAP, the Department of Housing and Urban Development announced cuts of more than half the federal funding for the Continuum of Care homelessness program, threatening support for up to 170,000 people without stable housing. The administration also kept national parks open during the shutdown while furloughing most National Park Service staff, leading to fires, vandalism, and safety risks that former officials described as reckless. At the same time, White House aides withheld the October jobs report and inflation numbers, citing partisan blame and pointing instead to anecdotal data from a delivery app. These choices shared a logic. Public goods and public information could be withheld, distorted, or exposed to harm when it served political ends. Poor and homeless Americans, park visitors, and the broader public lost security and clarity. The executive gained the power to define reality and to decide which communities would bear the cost of its standoffs.\
\
The justice system was the week\'92s second great arena of struggle. On one side stood a sweeping clemency campaign. President Trump issued pardons to 77 individuals involved in efforts to overturn the 2020 election, including Rudy Giuliani, Mark Meadows, Jenna Ellis, and Sidney Powell, and then layered on a broad pardon for \'93all U.S. citizens\'94 for conduct related to that election. He pardoned militia member Dan Wilson, an Oath Keepers\uc0\u8209 linked January 6 participant, for a felony gun conviction, and extended clemency to wealthy financial offenders such as Changpeng Zhao and British billionaire Joe Lewis, both convicted of serious financial crimes. He quietly pardoned the husband of a sitting member of Congress for healthcare fraud. These acts did not erase state\u8209 level cases, but they sent a clear signal: loyalty and wealth could buy absolution, and attempts to subvert elections or launder money would be forgiven if they aligned with the president\'92s interests. The rule of law bent toward a two\u8209 tier system in which allies were shielded and ordinary defendants remained exposed.\
\
At the same time, the machinery of prosecution and oversight was being reshaped to match this new clemency regime. Ed Martin, a MAGA loyalist who had pushed false claims about the 2020 election, was installed as the Justice Department\'92s pardon attorney after his predecessor was ousted for refusing to grant clemency to a Trump ally. Martin promptly opened an investigation into Biden\uc0\u8209 era pardons, including preemptive clemency for January 6 committee members, turning what had been a neutral advisory office into a partisan instrument. Federal prosecutor Lindsey Halligan faced bar complaints over her role in prosecuting Trump critics James Comey and Letitia James, while Comey and James themselves sought to dismiss charges on the grounds that Halligan\'92s appointment by Attorney General Pam Bondi was unlawful. Meanwhile, ethics officials at Fannie Mae were removed while investigating whether a Trump ally had improperly accessed mortgage documents of Democratic officials, and the case was steered to Halligan, who allegedly forwarded information to the White House. In parallel, Democratic Congressman Eric Swalwell found himself under federal investigation for alleged mortgage fraud after the FHFA director, Bill Pulte, sent a referral to the attorney general. The pattern was stark. Law enforcement power flowed toward the punishment of critics and the protection of friends, while internal watchdogs were sidelined.\
\
Yet the courts did not speak with one voice. In Georgia, a new prosecutor, Pete Skandalakis, stepped in to keep the 2020 election interference case against Trump and his allies alive after the removal of District Attorney Fani Willis, ensuring that state\uc0\u8209 level accountability efforts did not collapse. The Nevada Supreme Court revived a criminal case against six fake electors who had claimed to be legitimate presidential electors in 2020. A Utah judge rejected a partisan congressional map and approved a new one that consolidated Salt Lake County into a single district, likely giving Democrats a House seat and pushing back against gerrymandering. Federal judges in Illinois and Oregon blocked the administration from deploying National Guard troops to Chicago and Portland, finding no credible evidence to justify such interventions. In Mississippi and nationwide, the Supreme Court agreed to hear cases on whether states can count mail\u8209 in ballots received after Election Day, a decision that could reshape voting rights in dozens of states. These rulings and hearings showed courts as a contested field. Some decisions, like the SNAP stay, enabled executive deprivation, while others defended fair maps, due process, and electoral integrity. Judicial independence held, but under strain.\
\
Immigration and deportation policy formed the week\'92s third major front, and here the tilt toward coercion was sharp. \'93Operation Midway Blitz\'94 in Chicago, launched in September, continued to cast a long shadow. ICE and Border Patrol raids had led to the detention of roughly 1,300 people, many in violation of a 2022 consent decree against warrantless arrests. Agents allegedly pepper\uc0\u8209 sprayed a family with a one\u8209 year\u8209 old child in a car, detained a daycare worker without a bond hearing, and were caught on video as a man collapsed while clutching a child during an arrest in Massachusetts. In Washington state, Border Patrol agents arrested and deported an undocumented firefighter, Jos\'e9 Bert\'edn Cruz\u8209 Estrada, while he was battling a wildfire, breaking a long\u8209 standing norm against immigration enforcement during disasters. In California, an ICE agent in plain clothes pointed a gun at a woman who was filming him, prompting a local police officer to intervene and refuse assistance absent a crime. In Texas and along the border, mass deportations swept up parents at schools and even U.S. citizens, while Governor Greg Abbott\'92s Operation Lone Star filled the Rio Grande with saw\u8209 bladed buoys and troops, drawing lawsuits over environmental damage and community harm. The termination of the CBP One app cut off a legal pathway for asylum seekers waiting in Mexico, and new USCIS rules promised to treat \'93country\u8209 specific factors\'94 from travel\u8209 ban nations as negative marks in visa and green card applications. Together, these actions turned immigration enforcement into a theater of fear, where legal status, family ties, and even public service offered little protection.\
\
There were pockets of resistance within this harsh landscape. A Chicago federal judge ordered the release of hundreds arrested in Midway Blitz, set modest bonds for those without criminal histories, and barred the government from pressuring detainees into \'93voluntary\'94 deportation while their cases were pending. Another judge issued a restraining order limiting ICE\'92s use of force in Chicago, and courts blocked the administration from deploying National Guard troops to Illinois. In California, seven detainees filed a class\uc0\u8209 action lawsuit over inhumane conditions at a CoreCivic\u8209 run ICE facility, alleging medical neglect, sewage problems, and restricted access to lawyers and family. Academic organizations sought to broaden a ruling that criticized the detention of pro\u8209 Palestinian scholars, asking courts to affirm that the First Amendment bars arrests based on political speech. The U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops issued a special message condemning the vilification of immigrants and detention conditions, while local groups in North Carolina organized workshops on how to respond to ICE raids and documented cooperation between county police and federal agents. These acts did not reverse the administration\'92s agenda, but they showed that civil society, local governments, and parts of the judiciary still had tools to slow or expose abuses. The resistance was partial, but it was real.\
\
The fourth development lay at the intersection of information, memory, and power, and it centered on Jeffrey Epstein\'92s files. House Democrats on the Oversight Committee released emails from Epstein\'92s estate suggesting that Donald Trump \'93of course\'85 knew about the girls\'94 and had spent hours at Epstein\'92s house with a victim. One 2011 email described Trump as \'93that dog that hasn\'92t barked,\'94 implying that his silence was notable; another, from 2019, told journalist Michael Wolff that Trump knew and had asked Ghislaine Maxwell to stop. These emails contradicted Trump\'92s public claims of ignorance and raised questions about leverage and blackmail. Survivors of Epstein\'92s abuse sent a letter to Congress urging full release of the files, arguing that only transparency could break the cycle of impunity. In response, a bipartisan group of House members used a discharge petition to force a vote on the Epstein Files Transparency Act. The petition reached the crucial 218 signatures after the delayed swearing\uc0\u8209 in of Adelita Grijalva, a Democrat from Arizona, whose oath had been held up for 49 days. With her signature, the petition compelled a floor vote in December, bypassing Speaker Mike Johnson\'92s control of the agenda.\
\
The executive branch moved quickly to blunt this push. Trump personally called Republican representatives Lauren Boebert and Nancy Mace, urging them to withdraw their signatures. Boebert was summoned to the White House Situation Room for a meeting with Attorney General Pam Bondi and FBI Director Kash Patel. Despite this pressure, the petition held. House Republicans then released 20,000 pages of Epstein\uc0\u8209 related documents focused on his efforts to rehabilitate his image after his 2008 plea, including public\u8209 relations strategies to manipulate search results and media coverage. At the same time, Trump ordered the Justice Department to open a new investigation into Epstein\'92s ties to Bill Clinton, JPMorgan Chase officials, and other Democrats. That directive, echoed in public statements about a \'93scam\'94 targeting Democrats, created a ready\u8209 made pretext for the DOJ to withhold records under the \'93ongoing investigation\'94 exception. The fight over the files thus became a fight over who controls the story: Congress and survivors seeking broad disclosure, or an executive willing to use new investigations to keep key records sealed. The balance of power here was unsettled, but the week showed that legislative ingenuity could still pry open doors the White House wanted closed.\
\
Information control extended beyond Epstein. Trump threatened to sue the BBC for $1 billion over a documentary that had edited his January 6 speech in a misleading way. His lawyers demanded an apology, retraction, and compensation. The BBC acknowledged the edit and apologized for the misrepresentation but refused to pay. The network\'92s director general and head of news resigned under pressure, including from the White House, underscoring how political attacks could reshape media leadership. Trump repeated the threat in U.S. venues, and the episode became part of a broader campaign against \'93hostile\'94 outlets. On Air Force One, when Bloomberg reporter Catherine Lucey asked about his resistance to releasing the Epstein files, Trump called her \'93quiet, piggy,\'94 a gendered insult that fit a pattern of belittling female journalists. Corporate sponsors also played a role in the information landscape. Several companies\'97Beam, Eight Sleep, and Rocket Money\'97sponsored Tucker Carlson\'92s podcast even after he aired a friendly interview with white supremacist Nick Fuentes; only after public scrutiny did Rocket Money withdraw its ads. In New York City\'92s mayoral race, AI\uc0\u8209 generated deepfake videos, some racist and Islamophobic, were used against Zohran Mamdani, a Muslim progressive candidate, raising new questions about how disinformation and bigotry can be automated and scaled. These episodes showed that the struggle over truth now runs through courts, corporate boardrooms, and algorithms as much as through traditional newsrooms.\
\
The week also saw the executive branch use foreign and military power in ways that strained alliances and raised legal questions. The Defense Department conducted its 20th known strike on a boat in the Caribbean, part of a \'93war on drugs\'94 campaign that had already killed at least 76 people since September. Two more strikes in the Eastern Pacific killed six. The USS Gerald R. Ford, the world\'92s largest aircraft carrier, entered Latin American waters, marking the most significant U.S. military presence in the region since the 1989 Panama invasion. Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth announced Operation SOUTHERN SPEAR, aimed at removing \'93narco\uc0\u8209 terrorists\'94 from the Western Hemisphere, with Venezuela as a likely target. In response, Venezuela deployed its own forces and accused the U.S. of fabricating a new war. Human Rights Watch and Cristosal reported that Venezuelan detainees sent to El Salvador\'92s megaprison under U.S. auspices had been beaten, sexually assaulted, and driven to suicidal thoughts, with many acts meeting the UN definition of torture. Only 3% had been convicted of violent crimes in the United States. Abroad, key allies recoiled. The UK and Colombia suspended intelligence sharing on suspected drug\u8209 trafficking boats, citing concerns about the legality of U.S. strikes and a desire to avoid complicity. In Europe, the administration cut military aid to the Baltic states, scaled back support for Ukraine, and imposed tariffs on European goods, deepening trade tensions and weakening NATO\'92s eastern flank. These moves signaled a more unilateral, transactional foreign policy that treated allies as expendable and human rights as secondary.\
\
At home, civil\uc0\u8209 military boundaries blurred in quieter ways. The Defense Department, under Hegseth, continued a purge of generals and admirals who had promoted diversity, replacing them with officers who passed loyalty tests. Military occupations of U.S. cities, justified as responses to unrest, had cost nearly $500 million, with heavy deployments in Los Angeles, Washington, and Chicago. On a Florida air base, a private housing contractor ordered residents to remove Christmas decorations put up \'93too early,\'94 enforcing lease rules that dictated when and how families could display holiday lights. The order was not a military command, but it showed how private firms wielded power over service members\'92 daily lives. Seventeen transgender Air Force and Space Force members sued after being denied early retirement benefits, alleging that their pensions and healthcare had been revoked. These developments did not move tanks into the streets, but they shifted the culture of the armed forces toward ideological conformity and signaled to marginalized service members that their rights were contingent.\
\
Against this backdrop, there were still acts of democratic repair. A bipartisan coalition in the Senate stripped language from a food\uc0\u8209 safety bill that would have nullified state truth\u8209 in\u8209 labeling laws for toxic ingredients, preserving state power to protect public health. The Georgia state election board settled a lawsuit over the use of private emails, agreeing to use official accounts and ban ephemeral messaging for board business, a small but real gain for transparency. In Kansas, a county agreed to pay more than $3 million and apologize for a 2023 police raid on a local newspaper, a settlement meant to deter future attacks on the press. The Supreme Court rejected Kim Davis\'92s appeal to overturn the 2015 same\u8209 sex marriage ruling, reaffirming LGBTQ+ rights. And in Utah, a judge approved a new congressional map that could give Democrats a House seat, reinforcing the idea that courts can still enforce fair representation. These were not sweeping victories, but they showed that institutional resistance had not vanished.\
\
There were also reminders of an older civic ethic. Historical notes circulated about Congress\'92s 1926 resolution and 1938 law establishing November 11 as Armistice Day, dedicated to world peace, and President Eisenhower\'92s 1954 proclamation urging Americans to honor veterans while promoting enduring peace. In the same week, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention announced a meeting of its Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices to review vaccine safety and schedules, even as the agency\'92s \'93wild to mild\'94 flu campaign had been suspended after Trump\'92s return to office. The Environmental Protection Agency extended comment periods and postponed advisory meetings on chemical risk evaluations due to the shutdown, but it also approved Utah\'92s air plan and Texas\'92s primacy over certain carbon\uc0\u8209 sequestration wells, and issued notices to ensure public access to environmental impact statements. These actions, routine and technical, kept alive the idea that government can still act in the public interest through open, rule\u8209 bound processes. They showed a quieter form of continuity.\
\
Looking ahead, several scheduled decisions and processes will test whether the week\'92s fragile balance holds. The House is set to vote on the Epstein Files Transparency Act in early December, with the discharge petition guaranteeing a floor vote but not its outcome. A separate discharge petition filed by House Democrats seeks a vote on extending ACA premium tax credits for three years, a move that could determine whether millions keep affordable coverage when current subsidies expire. The Supreme Court will hear cases on late\uc0\u8209 arriving mail ballots and the legality of counting ballots received after Election Day, rulings that could reshape voting in up to thirty states. The Court is also weighing the constitutionality of Trump\'92s tariffs, with some justices signaling skepticism about the breadth of his trade powers. In Georgia, a pretrial status conference is scheduled for the revived election interference case on December 1. And the CDC\'92s immunization committee will meet in early December to consider vaccine recommendations, a test of whether scientific advisory bodies can still operate free from overt political pressure.\
\
The Democracy Clock closes Week 43 still at 7:59 p.m. That fixed time should not be mistaken for safety. It marks a moment when authoritarian practices\'97selective clemency, punitive deprivation, militarized immigration enforcement, and information control\'97are no longer exceptions but habits, yet the institutions that can resist them have not yet been broken. Courts in several states, a determined minority in Congress, civil society groups, and even some regulatory agencies continue to assert their roles. The week matters because it shows how a democracy can hover in this tense equilibrium: not yet past the point of no return, but living with a justice system that treats friends and enemies differently, a welfare state used as leverage, and a public sphere clouded by threats and deepfakes. Whether future weeks move the hands forward will depend less on any single shock than on whether these habits harden into a new normal or are checked by sustained, organized resistance. For now, the official time remains 7:59 p.m., with the light still on but the room growing dimmer.}