{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26 \cf0 The story of Week 1 begins with speed. In the five days after Donald Trump took the oath of office for a second time, the presidency moved as if it had been waiting at a starting line. Orders poured out of the White House, not as isolated gestures but as a single, dense wave. Immigration, energy, health, education, foreign aid, civil rights, and the civil service were all touched at once. The pattern was not improvisation. It was a plan to concentrate power in the executive, thin out the institutions that might resist, and redraw the boundary between those who belong and those who do not. This is where the story of the second term starts.\
\
At the close of the prior period, the Democracy Clock stood at 7:31 p.m. It now reads 7:38 p.m., a seven\uc0\u8209 minute jump in a single week. That movement is large for the early part of a term. It reflects not one crisis but a structural turn: executive power asserted without effective oversight, emergency powers treated as a normal tool of governance, and citizenship itself placed on a sliding scale. The week\'92s orders and firings made it harder for inspectors general, civil servants, and courts to act as brakes. They also made it easier for the president to act first and force others to catch up later, if they could.\
\
The clearest field of this new approach was immigration. On his first day, Trump declared a national emergency at the southern border, despite crossings being at a multi\uc0\u8209 year low. The declaration unlocked troop deployments, wall construction, and the redirection of funds without fresh congressional approval. Orders titled \'93Securing Our Borders\'94 and \'93Protecting The American People Against Invasion\'94 framed migration as a security threat and an invasion, not as a legal and humanitarian system to be managed. The military\'92s Northern Command was given an explicit mission to secure the border against \'93unlawful mass migration,\'94 and within days the Pentagon began moving 1,500 active\u8209 duty troops, plus 1,000 soldiers and 500 Marines, to the frontier. The border was no longer just a line in law. It was a theater of operations.\
\
Alongside the emergency came a dismantling of lawful pathways. The CBP One app, which had allowed hundreds of thousands of asylum seekers to schedule appointments at ports of entry, was abruptly shut down. Roughly 30,000 existing appointments were canceled. People who had waited months in dangerous Mexican border cities saw their place in line vanish overnight. The administration also ended programs that had allowed Cubans, Haitians, Nicaraguans, and Venezuelans with sponsors to live and work legally for two years. At the same time, the Migrant Protection Protocols\'97the \'93Remain in Mexico\'94 policy\'97were reinstated, forcing asylum seekers to wait in Mexico while their cases crawled through US courts. The Refugee Admissions Program was suspended, stranding thousands of approved refugees worldwide. Together, these moves turned what had been narrow, contested channels into a broad closure.\
\
Enforcement inside the country hardened as well. The administration restored and expanded \'93expedited removal\'94 nationwide, allowing Immigration and Customs Enforcement to deport people who could not prove two years\'92 residence with minimal judicial review. Long\uc0\u8209 standing rules that kept ICE and Border Patrol away from \'93sensitive locations\'94 such as schools, churches, and hospitals were revoked. Agents were authorized to make arrests in and around those spaces. New directives told Customs and Border Protection to detain migrants without release, even if it meant extended custody, and to reintroduce rapid deportations for those unable to document their time in the United States. ICE raids in places like Newark, where a Puerto Rican veteran was swept up alongside other Hispanic workers, showed how easily such powers could blur the line between citizen and non\u8209 citizen in practice.\
\
The most far\uc0\u8209 reaching attempt, however, went to the core of membership itself. On January 20, Trump signed an order titled \'93Protecting the Meaning and Value of American Citizenship.\'94 It declared that children born in the United States to mothers unlawfully present, or to parents without citizenship or permanent residency, would no longer receive automatic citizenship. The order directed agencies to withhold documents from such children and set a 30\u8209 day clock for implementation. This was a direct challenge to the Fourteenth Amendment\'92s guarantee that all persons born in the United States are citizens. It was also a signal that citizenship would be stratified by parentage and status, not anchored in birth alone.\
\
The legal system reacted quickly. California and a coalition of states and cities filed suit, arguing that the order violated the Constitution and would cause irreparable harm to residents. Within days, a federal judge in Washington state, appointed by Ronald Reagan, issued a temporary restraining order blocking the policy, calling it \'93blatantly unconstitutional.\'94 Other courts followed with similar injunctions. For the moment, birthright citizenship remained intact in law. But the attempt itself mattered. It moved the country from debating rhetoric about \'93anchor babies\'94 to litigating an actual executive order that sought to rewrite a core rule of belonging without amendment or statute.\
\
While immigration policy was being remade, the machinery of accountability inside the government was being stripped down. On day one, Trump reinstated and expanded a Schedule F\'96style classification, reclassifying tens of thousands of policy\uc0\u8209 influencing civil servants as political hires. These employees lost many of the job protections that had insulated them from partisan purges. The administration began removing protections for career staff it labeled part of the \'93deep state,\'94 and the National Treasury Employees Union went to court to challenge the order as a violation of due process. At the same time, the White House created the \'93Department of Government Efficiency,\'94 or DOGE, inside the Executive Office, reorganizing the US Digital Service into a presidential tool and planting DOGE teams in each agency to drive the president\'92s agenda.\
\
DOGE\'92s structure and leadership underscored the new alignment. Elon Musk was given a West Wing office and effective control of the program after Vivek Ramaswamy resigned amid disputes over foreign\uc0\u8209 born tech workers. A public interest law firm sued, arguing that DOGE functioned as a federal advisory committee without meeting transparency and balanced representation requirements. Yet even as the lawsuit moved forward, DOGE\'92s mandate\'97to centralize software, data, and payment systems under the president\'92s direction\'97remained in place. The combination of Schedule F and DOGE meant that both the people who implement policy and the systems they use were being drawn into a tighter circle of loyalty and private influence.\
\
The most direct blow to internal oversight came with the inspectors general. By week\'92s end, Trump had fired the independent inspectors general of at least a dozen major agencies, without the 30 days\'92 notice to Congress that the law contemplates. These officials had been the internal watchdogs charged with auditing programs, investigating waste and abuse, and reporting misconduct to both the executive and legislative branches. Their removal in a single sweep did more than change personnel. It signaled that the administration did not intend to tolerate independent scrutiny from within. Vacancies and politicized replacements would make it harder to rebuild that capacity later, even if a future administration wished to do so.\
\
Law enforcement and the justice system were also reoriented. On his first day, Trump signed orders directing the attorney general and the director of national intelligence to review the prior four years for \'93weaponization\'94 and \'93censorship,\'94 and to recommend remedial actions. Another order revoked the security clearances of 50 former intelligence officials and a former national security adviser, accusing them of improper coordination with the Biden campaign and misuse of sensitive information. A separate directive paused prosecutions under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which had been used to pursue American companies that bribed foreign officials. These moves together shifted the Justice Department\'92s posture: away from pursuing corporate bribery and civil rights cases, and toward investigating political rivals and sanctuary officials.\
\
Clemency power was used in the same direction. Trump issued \'93full, complete and unconditional\'94 pardons or commutations to roughly 1,500 individuals convicted in connection with the January 6 attack on the Capitol, including leaders of extremist groups convicted of seditious conspiracy and hundreds who had assaulted police officers. He ordered the Justice Department to dismiss remaining cases. He also pardoned anti\uc0\u8209 abortion activists convicted under the Freedom of Access to Clinic Entrances Act and Ross Ulbricht, the founder of the Silk Road online drug marketplace. Law enforcement unions, federal judges, and police chiefs condemned the January 6 pardons as a betrayal of the rule of law. Yet the message to those who might consider future political violence was clear: if their cause aligned with the president\'92s, the law might not bind them.\
\
Congress did not stand entirely aside, but its actions often reinforced the new direction. The House and Senate passed the Laken Riley Act, mandating detention of undocumented immigrants charged with theft\uc0\u8209 related crimes and allowing state attorneys general to sue the federal government for failing to enforce immigration laws. The bill, which awaited Trump\'92s signature, would harden detention practices and invite litigation\u8209 driven oversight of executive discretion. At the same time, House Republicans formed a new select subcommittee to re\u8209 examine the January 6 attack, chaired by a member who had previously sought to undermine the original bipartisan investigation. The stated aim was to uncover the \'93full truth,\'94 but the context\'97coming just after mass pardons and amid efforts to recast rioters as \'93hostages\'94\'97suggested a different purpose: to rewrite the institutional memory of the assault on Congress.\
\
Other legislative moves pointed toward a longer horizon. Representative Andy Ogles introduced a resolution to amend the Twenty\uc0\u8209 Second Amendment so that a person could be elected president three times, with language tailored to allow Trump but not Barack Obama to run again. A parallel resolution appeared in the House. The proposals had no immediate legal effect, but they moved the idea of extended tenure from rally slogans into formal constitutional politics. In the budget realm, Trump\'92s budget director announced plans to challenge the Impoundment Control Act, the law that prevents presidents from withholding funds appropriated by Congress. If successful, such a challenge would weaken the legislature\'92s power of the purse and further tilt the balance toward the executive.\
\
Beyond the borders, the administration pulled back from multilateral commitments and recast foreign policy as a series of bilateral bargains. On day one, Trump ordered the United States to withdraw from the Paris climate agreement, again, and from the World Health Organization. He halted virtually all foreign development assistance, with narrow exceptions for military aid to Israel and Egypt and some emergency food programs, pending a review for consistency with his agenda. Funding for UNRWA and participation in the UN Human Rights Council were cut off. A new \'93America First\'94 directive instructed the State Department to align all policies and personnel with that posture. These steps reduced the country\'92s role in shared climate and health efforts and increased the president\'92s leverage over which partners would receive aid and on what terms.\
\
At the same time, Trump moved to reshape the economic order in ways that intertwined public policy with private gain. Just before and after inauguration, he and his wife launched TRUMP and MELANIA cryptocurrencies, meme coins whose value surged into the billions on paper. Eighty percent of the $TRUMP supply was reserved for a company he owns, to be unlocked over three years. Major exchanges under regulatory scrutiny listed and promoted the coin, apparently hoping for a friendlier enforcement climate. A separate executive order on digital financial technology revoked the prior administration\'92s framework for digital assets, banned a US central bank digital currency, and created a presidential working group on digital markets. The effect was to clear space for private crypto ventures while limiting public monetary tools.\
\
The Trump Organization and Jared Kushner\'92s Affinity Partners deepened foreign business ties at the same time. Kushner\'92s fund secured $2 billion from Saudi Arabia\'92s sovereign wealth fund despite internal objections about his inexperience and fee structure. Affinity partnered with the Trump Organization on a luxury Trump Tower Belgrade project built on a former military site leased from the Serbian government. New Trump\uc0\u8209 branded developments in Saudi Arabia, the UAE, and Vietnam were announced. The Trump Organization quietly revised its ethics statement, dropping a prior pledge to avoid new foreign deals during the presidency. These arrangements created channels through which foreign governments and investors could enrich the president and his family while his administration set policy on trade, sanctions, and security.\
\
The civil rights infrastructure that had grown over decades was also cut back. Executive orders shut down all federal offices focused on diversity, equity, inclusion, and accessibility, placed their staff on leave, and revoked earlier directives on racial equity, LGBTQ+ protections, and environmental justice. Executive Order 11246, which since 1965 had required federal contractors to avoid discrimination based on race, color, religion, sex, or national origin, was repealed. A separate order, framed as \'93Ending Illegal Discrimination and Restoring Merit\uc0\u8209 Based Opportunity,\'94 directed agencies to terminate what it called illegal preferences and to police DEI practices in the private sector. Together, these moves removed key levers that had tied public money to equal opportunity and signaled that the federal government would no longer use its contracting power to enforce anti\u8209 discrimination norms.\
\
Reproductive and gender rights were pulled into the same current. Trump signed orders affirming the prohibition on federal funds for elective abortions, rescinding Biden\uc0\u8209 era efforts to protect access after the fall of Roe v. Wade, and reinstating the Mexico City policy that cuts off US aid to foreign organizations that provide or even discuss abortion services. Another order defined sex in federal policy as male or female, \'93determined at conception,\'94 language that aligns with fetal personhood doctrines and could support broader criminalization of abortion. Orders barred transgender women and girls from women\'92s sports and directed federal programs to exclude coverage for gender\u8209 affirming care for minors. These steps did not yet rewrite statutes, but they shifted the baseline of federal enforcement and funding in ways that will be hard to reverse quickly.\
\
Information itself became a contested field. The Department of Health and Human Services, including the CDC and FDA, was ordered to pause external communications, halt most travel, and freeze new contracts and grants. Scientific meetings were canceled, and a pending report on avian influenza was shelved. A separate memo titled \'93Putting People over Fish\'94 directed the Interior and Commerce Departments to reroute more water from California\'92s Sacramento\'96San Joaquin Delta to agriculture and cities, instructing agencies to expedite actions under the Endangered Species Act and the National Environmental Policy Act. Obama\uc0\u8209 era flood protection standards for federally funded infrastructure were rescinded. These moves combined a rhetoric of common sense with a sidelining of scientific expertise and long\u8209 term risk assessments.\
\
At the same time, the administration dismantled tools that had made law enforcement more transparent. The federal database tracking police misconduct was taken offline. In Ohio, a new law allowed police departments to charge up to $750 for access to body\uc0\u8209 camera and other video footage, a fee large enough to deter many journalists and citizens. The Justice Department issued a memo halting consent decrees and other agreements aimed at reforming police departments with patterns of misconduct. In Mississippi, a police department hired an officer previously fired for telling Latino men to \'93go back to Mexico.\'94 These developments did not all originate in Washington, but they fit the same pattern: making it harder to see and correct abuses of power, especially against marginalized communities.\
\
There were, amid this wave, points of resistance and continuity. Federal judges blocked the birthright citizenship order and imposed conditions on the release of some January 6 leaders, such as forbidding Stewart Rhodes from entering Washington, DC without court permission. Civil society organizations coordinated legal challenges to the new executive orders. States like California advanced their own policies, such as a $20 minimum wage for fast\uc0\u8209 food workers and a $2.5 billion wildfire relief package, that moved in a different direction. The National Labor Relations Board approved a union election at an Amazon warehouse in North Carolina, and workers at Costco authorized a strike over pay, leave, and surveillance. These actions did not stop the week\'92s shift, but they showed that not all institutions were moving in the same direction.\
\
Looking ahead from Week 1, several processes were already in motion. The lawsuits over birthright citizenship, DOGE\'92s legal status, and Schedule F will test how far courts are willing to go in checking executive overreach. The Laken Riley Act, once signed, will reshape detention practices and invite new litigation over due process and federalism. The new January 6 subcommittee will begin hearings that may recast the public narrative of the insurrection. The foreign aid freeze and WHO and Paris withdrawals will force allies and private actors to decide how to fill the gaps left by US retreat. And the proposed amendment to presidential term limits, even if unlikely to pass soon, will linger as a marker of how some lawmakers now think about the duration of personal rule.\
\
The Democracy Clock now stands at 7:38 p.m. This first week of the second Trump term matters not only for what it did, but for how it did it. Power was gathered through overlapping emergencies, mass firings, and a blizzard of executive orders that touched nearly every domain at once. Citizenship was treated as contingent, not guaranteed. Law was used to shield allies and threaten opponents. Watchdogs were removed, and the line between public office and private enrichment grew thinner. At the same time, courts, states, and civil society showed that some guardrails remain, though they are under strain. The week\'92s movement tells us that the system has entered a new phase: one in which the formal structures of democracy still stand, but the habits and constraints that give them meaning are being rapidly hollowed out.}