{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2867
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 .SFNS-Semibold;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 .SFNS-Regular;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue-Bold;
\f3\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f4\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red14\green14\blue14;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c6700\c6700\c6700;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs44 \cf2 The Democracy Clock
\f1\b0\fs28 \cf2 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs30 \cf2 Executive Summary
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf2 The Democracy Clock
\f1\b0  is a standing, longitudinal report that measures and documents changes in the condition of democratic governance in the United States over time. It tracks both erosion and repair of democratic norms, institutions, and practices using a consistent, evidence-based framework. The report is updated on a fixed cadence and preserved in archival editions to create a durable public record.\
\
The purpose of the Democracy Clock is not to persuade, predict, or advocate. It exists to 
\f2\b make democratic change legible
\f1\b0 , particularly when that change is incremental, normalized, or obscured by political noise. Democracies rarely collapse suddenly. They weaken\'97or recover\'97through cumulative decisions, precedents, and institutional shifts. The Democracy Clock records that accumulation.\
\
The report is designed for use by journalists and producers seeking factual grounding; policy staff and institutional leaders monitoring governance risk; educators and researchers studying democratic systems; and citizens seeking explanation rather than commentary. It is a public reference, not an opinion column, electoral forecast, or partisan document.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 Framework
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\
The Democracy Clock uses time as a metaphor for the democratic condition.\
\pard\tx220\tx720\li720\fi-720\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf2 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}
\f2\b Noon
\f1\b0  represents a fully functioning democratic republic.\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}
\f2\b Midnight
\f1\b0  represents democratic collapse or authoritarian consolidation.\
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Movement toward or away from midnight reflects 
\f2\b structural change
\f1\b0 , not public sentiment, polling, or rhetoric. The clock is explicitly 
\f2\b bidirectional
\f1\b0 : democratic repair can and does move the clock away from midnight.\
This framing captures direction, momentum, and persistence\'97features of democratic change that are often missed when events are viewed in isolation.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 Measurement and Method
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\
The Democracy Clock evaluates documented events across core democratic domains, including:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\li720\fi-720\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0\cf2 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}Electoral integrity\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}Rule of law and judicial independence\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}Separation of powers and oversight\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}Civil liberties and political rights\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}Information integrity and media independence\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}Institutional accountability\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}Use and abuse of emergency powers\
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 An event is logged only if it is verifiable, reflects a concrete action or institutional change, and has plausible democratic relevance beyond rhetoric. Statements alone are included only when accompanied by formal authority or institutional consequence.\
Each qualifying event is assessed for direction (erosive or restorative), scope (localized or systemic), and durability (temporary or precedent-setting). Events are evaluated independently and aggregated to determine net movement. There are no preset movement targets and no narrative smoothing. When events warrant significant movement, the clock reflects it.\
All movements are traceable to logged events. Methodology is applied consistently over time, and any recalibration is documented transparently.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 Sources and Verification
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\
Primary sources include government records, court filings and rulings, congressional actions, executive orders and agency directives, and reputable investigative journalism. Secondary sources may be used for context but do not substitute for primary evidence. Anonymous claims, uncorroborated social-media content, and opinion without factual grounding are excluded.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs24 \cf0 \

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 Updates, Archival Practice, and Use
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\
The Democracy Clock is updated regularly, with interim updates issued when major developments materially affect democratic condition. Periodic archival editions preserve immutable snapshots of the record at fixed points in time. Subsequent editions document change rather than overwrite history.\
\
The Democracy Clock may be cited as a standing report. Individual entries may be cited by date and edition. Charts and tables are cleared for reuse with attribution. Analytical disagreement is welcomed.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 Independence
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\
The Democracy Clock operates independently of political parties, campaigns, or government institutions. Errors are corrected transparently, and methodological changes are disclosed. Its authority rests on consistency, sourcing discipline, and openness to scrutiny.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f4 \cf2 Functionally, the Democracy Clock is a public instrument for documenting whether democratic governance is weakening, holding, or being repaired\'97one documented step at a time.}