{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 .SFNS-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red14\green14\blue14;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c6700\c6700\c6700;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf2 A democracy is more than a method for choosing leaders. It is a system meant to keep people safe from arbitrary power, to deliver justice that is even-handed, and to protect the freedoms that allow people to live without fear. When any one of those principles falters, the others begin to bend. Safety without freedom becomes repression. Freedom without justice becomes fragile. Justice without safety becomes formality. A nation that aspires to be safe, just, and free must treat these not as competing priorities, but as a single obligation to the people who call it home.\cf0 \
Over the past year, that obligation has been strained in visible and unsettling ways. Journalists who cover national security were told their Pentagon access would be revoked unless they signed a pledge promising not to gather or report \'93unauthorized\'94 information, even when it was unclassified. Their movements inside the building were restricted to government-escorted zones. The Federal Communications Commission, led by a loyalist to the administration, threatened to revoke the broadcast licenses of ABC stations after a late-night host criticized the president\'92s handling of a political ally\'92s death. The president publicly declared that negative coverage was \'93really illegal\'94 and called for critics and comedians to be prosecuted. These are not small signals.\
\cf2 At the same time, sweeping executive orders designated \'93antifa\'94 as a domestic terrorist organization\'97despite its lack of centralized structure and despite earlier statements from federal law enforcement that it was an ideology, not an organization. Other directives targeted lawyers who had opposed the administration in court, naming them in official memoranda and directing disciplinary action. Senior Justice Department officials were instructed to draw up investigation plans for organizations associated with a political opponent. Federal workers in certain agencies were removed from ordinary labor-management protections under the banner of national security. And millions of childcare, home-care, and disabled workers saw moves toward eliminating minimum wage and overtime standards that already left many living on the brink.\cf0 \
Individually, these steps raise concern. Together, they form a pattern: the tools of government\'97security policy, broadcast regulation, law enforcement authority, employment rules\'97being pressed into service not for public safety, but for political advantage. A democracy cannot remain safe, just, and free if speech is chilled by threat of prosecution, if dissent is reclassified as terrorism, if lawyers are punished for defending unpopular causes, or if vulnerable workers are pushed deeper into precarity. The same systems that have been bent, however, can be repaired when a country insists that power be exercised within limits. That insistence is the work of citizens as well as officials.\
Freedom is the first line of protection for both safety and justice. A nation cannot correct abuses it cannot see. When agencies condition press credentials on silence, they shrink the public\'92s access to information about the institutions entrusted with the nation\'92s security. When leaders describe criticism as illegal, they send a signal that lawful dissent is unwelcome. When regulators hint that broadcasting licenses can be jeopardized for airing uncomfortable truths, the boundary between public service and political pressure blurs. That blur is dangerous.\
To ensure freedom endures, press access must be governed by principles rather than personalities. Agencies should not be permitted to require journalists to waive their right to pursue unclassified information. Standards governing access to national security institutions should be transparent, narrowly drawn, and subject to independent review. Broadcast licensing should remain rooted in the public interest, not in whether coverage flatters those in power. And all public officials must be reminded\'97by law and by practice\'97that criticism of government is not only lawful but essential. It is part of the job description of a free people.\
Justice requires similar clarity. A legal system cannot function if attorneys fear punishment for standing between citizens and the state. Naming individual lawyers in presidential memoranda, directing the attorney general to discipline those who have challenged federal policy, or instructing prosecutors to pursue organizations associated with a political target\'97these actions undermine the independence of those charged with upholding the law. Justice is not a tool for reward or retribution. It is a framework that protects the public from precisely that kind of discretionary power. Without that shield, the law becomes a weapon.\
A nation committed to justice must strengthen the independence of its legal institutions. Disciplinary actions against attorneys should be grounded exclusively in professional standards, not political displeasure. Prosecutorial decisions must be based on evidence, not presidential demand. Safeguards should protect career officials who refuse improper orders. Mechanisms for congressional oversight should ensure that politically sensitive investigations are justified, documented, and accountable. These are the guardrails that keep justice from being bent to partisan ends.\
Safety also depends on how a country uses its authority to counter genuine threats. When the government designates a loosely defined political movement as a terrorist organization, it risks collapsing protest into extremism and criminalizing association rather than violence. This not only violates constitutional protections; it diverts the machinery of national security away from actual dangers. A safe society demands clear, lawful definitions of domestic terrorism that focus on conduct, not ideology, and place any extraordinary powers under strong judicial and legislative checks. Otherwise, fear becomes a pretext.\
\cf2 There is another layer to safety: the stability of work and the dignity of those who labor. When childcare workers, home-care workers, and disabled workers are stripped of basic wage protections, their economic insecurity grows\'97and so does the vulnerability of the families who rely on them. When federal workers are excluded from collective bargaining under expansive claims of national security, the principle of fair negotiation erodes. A country that wishes to be safe, just, and free cannot ignore the link between economic security and personal liberty. Workers who live one emergency away from crisis cannot easily participate in public life, speak openly about injustice, or advocate for change.\cf0 \
Protecting freedom and justice therefore requires a foundation of fair labor standards. Wage floors and overtime protections should reflect the value of essential care work. Disabled workers should not be relegated to segregated pay systems. Federal employees performing civilian functions should retain bargaining rights, with any national security exclusions limited, specific, and reviewable. These are not just economic matters\'97they are civic ones, shaping whether people experience government as a source of stability or a source of fear. The workplace becomes one more arena where democracy is either lived or denied.\
Across all these domains, the principle is the same: systems that uphold rights must not be bent for political convenience. When the press can report independently, citizens know what their government is doing. When dissent is protected, ideas can compete without coercion. When justice is insulated from retaliation, the powerful are held to the same rules as everyone else. When work is dignified and protected, families gain the stability that enables civic participation. Safety, justice, and freedom reinforce one another because each keeps the others from sliding into abuse. They rise or fall together.\
For the reader, these issues are not theoretical. They determine whether you can hear accurate news about your government, whether your neighbors can protest without fear of being labeled terrorists, whether your community\'92s lawyers can defend clients without becoming targets themselves, and whether the people who care for your children, elders, or disabled relatives can afford to stay in those jobs. They shape whether workers in key agencies feel secure enough to report wrongdoing, and whether the legal system is strong enough to resist pressure from those who wield executive power. They reach into daily life.\
The choices made in the coming year will influence whether these systems bend further or are restored to health. Citizens can demand leaders who defend press freedom even when coverage is uncomfortable, who protect the right to dissent even when they disagree with the dissenters, who resist using the Justice Department as a political tool, and who believe that a strong democracy is one in which power is restrained by law, not expanded by fear. Communities can organize around these principles, insisting that safety and freedom reinforce each other rather than cancel each other out. That insistence is how norms become practice.\
\cf2 A nation that is safe, just, and free does not eliminate conflict, risk, or criticism. It builds structures that channel those realities without sacrificing dignity or rights. When public institutions are transparent, when dissent is lawful, when justice is independent, and when work is dignified, the country stands on firmer ground. Safety becomes a shared condition rather than a privilege. Justice becomes a lived experience rather than an aspiration. Freedom becomes a steady inheritance rather than a fragile exception. And democracy becomes strong enough\'97and principled enough\'97to remain worthy of the people it serves.}