{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 .SFNS-Semibold;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 .SFNS-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red14\green14\blue14;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c6700\c6700\c6700;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs30 \cf2 How to Judge a Candidate
\f1\b0\fs28 \cf2 \
\
The most important question in the 2026 election is also the simplest: Will this candidate protect and restore American democracy, even when it is hard, lonely, or politically costly? Every other issue matters, but none of them matter first. A nation that cannot keep its own governing structure intact cannot secure rights, solve problems, provide safety, or fulfill any promise it makes to its people. The person asking for your vote must be prepared to carry that responsibility without wavering. They may be young or old, seasoned or new to public life, polished or plainspoken, but they must possess a steadiness of purpose that cannot be bought, bullied, or distracted. Democracy will not be reclaimed by people seeking admiration. It will be reclaimed by people willing to work for others when the applause has stopped.\
\
Voters often ask what qualities they should look for in a candidate. The temptation is to start with policy, biography, or party alignment, but those are surface signals. The deeper question is whether the candidate understands what this era requires. The next Congress and the next generation of public servants will inherit a system that has been bent, stressed, and hollowed by decades of neglect and by leaders who treated power as personal property. Repairing that system will demand intelligence, stamina, judgment, and humility, but above all it will demand a kind of moral courage that is rare in public life: the willingness to lose an election rather than betray the republic; the willingness to tell the truth even when it is unpopular; the willingness to stand up to the powerful on behalf of those who have none; the willingness to push for reforms that will outlast their own careers. No r\'e9sum\'e9 can substitute for that readiness, and no charm can hide its absence.\
\
Most candidates will speak about freedom, opportunity, and the future. Fewer will speak honestly about the work it takes to keep a democracy functioning. A functioning democracy does not run on slogans; it runs on systems: voting that counts every voice, institutions that answer to the law rather than to ideology, a government capable of solving problems instead of performing division, and a civic culture where opponents are not enemies. The candidate you choose should understand that these systems were built over generations but can collapse through neglect. They should speak clearly about the need to strengthen them. They should treat the promises of the Constitution not as abstractions but as obligations\'97to secure justice, keep the peace, provide safety, strengthen the common good, and guard liberty for all. Those are not rhetorical flourishes. They are the job description.\
\
Character still matters in public life, though it is often dismissed as old-fashioned. It is not old-fashioned. It is infrastructure. A candidate who treats opponents with contempt will govern with contempt. A candidate who seeks office for grievance will legislate for grievance. A candidate who bends the truth on the campaign trail will break it in office. You are choosing someone who will have power over budgets, borders, courts, rights, and the national story itself. The right person does not need to be perfect, but they must be guided by something sturdier than ambition. They must show a habit of honesty, a respect for facts, a willingness to acknowledge error, and an instinct for the public good. They must believe that public office is stewardship, not status, and that their highest duty is to people they may never meet.\
\
The best candidates are those who speak not of domination but of service. They understand that progress is collective, not personal; that democracy requires compromise, not surrender; that belonging is not a gift from the powerful but a birthright of the people. When you listen to them, you should hear someone who sees every voter as equally deserving of dignity and representation. You should hear someone who speaks with clarity about the need to rebuild institutions, strengthen fairness, protect truth, and reject the politics of humiliation and fear. You should hear someone who knows the difference between firmness and cruelty. Above all, you should hear someone who understands that the republic is fragile now, and that their role is to help the country find its footing again.\
\
Elections are often framed as choices among policy agendas, but this one is different. It is about whether the next Congress will contain enough people of courage to finish the work of democratic repair. That work includes protecting voting rights, securing fair representation, defending the independence of courts, maintaining ethical boundaries in public office, and ensuring that government functions for the many rather than the few. It includes rebuilding trust where it has frayed, competence where it has eroded, and accountability where it has been avoided. None of that will happen by accident. It will happen because citizens choose candidates who are strong enough to do it.\
\
When assessing a candidate, listen not only to what they promise but to what they accept responsibility for. Listen for whether they acknowledge the damage done in recent years; whether they speak about mending the country rather than exploiting its division; whether they have a clear sense of the long republic we are trying to build\'97a nation where democracy is not constantly at risk but reliably sustained across generations. Look for people who can work with others, not because they lack conviction but because they understand that democracy requires shared authorship. Look for people who can tell you what they stand for without telling you who to hate.\
\
In the end, your vote is not a reward for charm or ideology. It is a trust placed in someone who must help govern a nation still recovering its democratic balance. Vote for the candidate who treats that trust as sacred. Vote for the candidate who understands that self-government is a responsibility before it is a right. Vote for the person who speaks about the country not as something to be conquered, but as something to be cared for. The work ahead is demanding. It will test everyone who holds office. Choose the ones who are ready to be tested.}