{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26 \cf0 Week 39: Shutdown as Weaponized Governance\
With Congress stalled, the White House turned budgets, law enforcement, and public memory into tools for punishing opponents and narrowing democratic space.\
The thirty-ninth week of Trump\'92s second term did not hinge on a single shock. It unfolded instead as a dense layering of moves that, taken together, made the state feel less like a shared instrument and more like a weapon in the hands of one faction. Power was exercised through budgets, hiring, raids, lawsuits, and even holidays. Each action could be defended as technical or routine. Their pattern could not.\
At the start of Week 39, the Democracy Clock stood at 8:08 p.m. It ended the week at the same public time, with a small inward shift of less than a minute. The face did not move, but the mechanism did. The net change captured a deepening of trends already in motion: Congress stalled while the executive improvised around appropriations; law and immigration powers were used against critics and immigrants; information channels and public memory were narrowed. Courts, unions, and states pushed back in places, but their efforts were reactive and scattered. The week marked not a new descent but a consolidation of an emerging order.\
The shutdown framed the week\'92s opening scene. In the Senate, leaders held nine and then ten failed cloture votes to reopen the government, each ending in the same stalemate. In the House, Speaker Mike Johnson canceled sessions and kept the chamber adjourned into a fourth week, even as agencies ran on fumes. The building that was meant to debate and decide instead went dark. Representation existed on paper, but in practice, members could not legislate, question, or even be sworn in.\
Into that vacuum stepped the White House. Using the shutdown as cover, the administration froze or canceled more than $27 billion in federal funds, with the cuts falling heavily on Democratic-led regions. Money for the Gateway Tunnel between New York and New Jersey was pulled back, stalling a long-planned rail link under the Hudson. Grants for other blue-area infrastructure and services were similarly halted. The message was clear in its effect if not its wording. Appropriations passed by Congress were now contingent on political alignment with the president.\
The pattern extended beyond transportation. In the Alaska Native village of Kipnuk, a $20 million flood-protection grant was cut just before a deadly typhoon, leaving a poor Indigenous community more exposed to rising seas and storms. At the same time, the administration reduced National Weather Service funding in ways that degraded storm forecasting, weakening a basic public good. Risk shifted downward, onto those with the least leverage, while the center retained discretion over who would be shielded and who would not. The burden moved, but not the power.\
The most striking assertion of fiscal power came in the treatment of the military payroll. As the shutdown dragged on, President Trump claimed authority to pay furloughed troops by redirecting future-year Pentagon research and development funds, without new legislation. He announced that FY2026 RDT&E appropriations would be repurposed to cover current salaries, and his administration followed through. Congress\'92s power of the purse, long treated as a hard boundary, became something the executive could work around in real time.\
Courts did not accept every maneuver. Federal judges blocked some attempts to coerce states by tying FEMA and anti-terror grants to immigration cooperation, ruling that the administration could not revoke New York City transit security funds or condition disaster aid on local enforcement choices. Later in the week, a group of former intelligence officials under the \'93Steady State\'94 banner released a report warning that such patterns\'97shutdown brinkmanship, selective funding freezes, and improvised budget reallocations\'97were pushing the United States toward competitive authoritarianism. Their critique did not stop the practices, but it placed them in a larger frame.\
While money was being redirected, the people who run the government were being reshaped. Early in the week, the administration initiated mass layoffs of more than 4,000 federal workers under the cover of the shutdown. Reduction-in-force notices went out across agencies, signaling that job security for civil servants now depended on political winds. Unions representing federal employees, including AFGE and AFSCME, rushed to court for emergency restraining orders, arguing that the firings were unlawful and retaliatory. Fear spread quickly through the ranks.\
Judges responded with unusual speed. In multiple cases, including one before U.S. District Judge Susan Illston, courts issued injunctions blocking the layoffs, at least temporarily. The rulings did not restore a sense of safety, but they did show that the judiciary still recognized limits on using a fiscal crisis to purge the bureaucracy. For a moment, the neutral civil service had defenders with power to say no. That mattered.\
The administration\'92s response was not to retreat but to change the rules. President Trump signed an executive order imposing a broad hiring freeze on federal civilian positions and centralizing staffing decisions in new strategic committees under White House influence. Entry into the civil service would now pass through narrower, more political gates. At the same time, the administration fired independent inspectors general and purged career officials deemed \'93disloyal,\'94 including plans to install Trump allies in key IRS investigative roles. Watchdogs who once had authority to investigate abuse were removed or sidelined.\
The Office of Population Affairs offered a concrete example of what this meant in practice. Nearly all staff in the office, which oversees family-planning programs, were fired. With its internal capacity gutted, the government\'92s ability to design and manage reproductive health policy shrank overnight. Decisions that had once been informed by career expertise could now be steered by a small circle of political appointees. The same logic underlay domestic troop deployments. When the administration later sent military forces into U.S. cities as part of a \'93domestic security\'94 strategy, it did so through a security bureaucracy increasingly shaped by loyalty rather than independence.\
Immigration and security powers formed another front in this week\'92s story. The administration granted USCIS agents expanded law-enforcement authority, including the power to make arrests and seek warrants. A benefits-focused agency that had long processed applications and paperwork was turned, in part, into an enforcement arm. In Chicago, Border Patrol and ICE agents conducted a military-style raid in an apartment complex, breaching doors without visible warrants. Residents woke to armed officers in their hallways. Fear spread far beyond those targeted.\
The human cost showed up in smaller, quieter cases. ICE agents revived a rarely used law requiring legal residents to carry registration documents at all times, issuing a fine to a longtime resident for failing to do so. In Arkansas, a mistaken drug arrest over perfume led to visa revocation and immigration detention for Kapil Raghu, whose life was upended by a chain of errors and profiling. In Louisiana, queer and trans detainees at a processing center alleged sexual abuse, medical neglect, and coercion into labor, describing a system where vulnerability invited exploitation. These were not abstractions. They were lives.\
At the policy level, National Security Presidential Memorandum 7 redefined certain beliefs\'97being \'93anti-Christian,\'94 critical of migration, or aligned with particular movements\'97as indicators of potential violence. These ideological flags fed into expanded social media surveillance of visa holders and other noncitizens. When the administration revoked visas of foreigners who criticized Charlie Kirk after his killing, it demonstrated how speech could trigger immigration consequences. Labor unions sued to block the new surveillance regime, arguing that it chilled online expression and privacy, but the architecture of monitoring was already in place.\
Courts again drew some lines. In Illinois, judges barred ICE from conducting warrantless arrests and blocked federal efforts to deploy National Guard troops in the state, upholding due process and state authority against aggressive tactics. A federal district court ordered immigration officers in Chicago to wear body cameras during operations, responding to prior abuses and creating a record for future challenges. Another court allowed a Palestinian activist, Mahmoud Khalil, to travel freely within the United States while contesting deportation, affirming that immigration proceedings did not erase basic movement rights. These rulings did not dismantle the broader enforcement machine, but they showed that parts of the judiciary still insisted on constitutional procedure.\
As these tools expanded, the administration and its allies worked to redefine who counted as a threat. Early in the week, President Trump signed a memo designating Antifa as a domestic terrorist organization, despite its loose structure and lack of clear statutory basis. He and adviser Stephen Miller threatened to cut funding to groups labeled \'93anti-American\'94 or terror-linked, signaling that civil society organizations on the left could lose grants or contracts based on ideology. The Department of Justice opened a RICO investigation into George Soros\'92s Open Society Foundations, using criminal law to stigmatize a major philanthropic network associated with liberal causes.\
Against this backdrop, activists organized \'93No Kings\'94 protests to challenge gerrymandering and what they saw as authoritarian drift. The rallies, planned in cities across the country, became a focal point for the week\'92s rhetoric. House Republican leaders branded them \'93Hate America\'94 events. MAGA-aligned media outlets called them \'93pro-Antifa hate America rallies.\'94 The White House press secretary described Democrats\'92 base as \'93Hamas terrorists, illegal aliens, and violent criminals.\'94 Peaceful protest was recast, in official language, as a security problem.\
Security posture followed the words. The administration used National Guard units and federal agents in immigration crackdowns around protest sites, blurring the line between crowd control and political intimidation. Vice President JD Vance said the administration was considering invoking the Insurrection Act to deploy Guard units in Democratic-led cities. Later in the week, troops were deployed to U.S. cities as part of a domestic security strategy. At the Broadview ICE facility in Illinois, at least fifteen protesters were detained amid physical confrontations with state police. DHS officials spoke of coordinated narcoterrorist and extremist plots against immigration officers, narratives that supported more aggressive surveillance and force.\
Information control and academic pressure formed a parallel track. At the Pentagon, new media rules required reporters to seek preapproval for reporting and to sign non-solicitation pledges, with the threat of expulsion for violations. Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth\'92s department framed the guidelines as order and security. Major outlets saw them as censorship. In response, they returned their press badges and walked out, choosing to lose access rather than accept conditions they viewed as unconstitutional. President Trump publicly endorsed the restrictions as \'93common sense,\'94 signaling that the White House backed a narrower, more compliant press corps inside the defense establishment.\
In Chicago, a federal judge issued a temporary restraining order protecting journalists from arrest or the use of riot-control weapons absent probable cause during immigration operations. The order underscored that, at least in one jurisdiction, courts still recognized the press as a distinct actor entitled to protection when covering state power. Yet the broader trend pointed the other way. Independent media were being pushed out of key spaces, while state-aligned outlets that accepted the new rules retained their foothold.\
Universities faced their own version of this squeeze. The administration rolled out a \'93Compact for Academic Excellence\'94 that tied federal funding to ideological conditions: curbing diversity, equity, and inclusion programs and reducing international student enrollment. Leading institutions such as Brown and MIT rejected the compact, choosing to risk financial penalties rather than accept federal direction over campus values. In Indiana, a university administration ordered the student newspaper to cease print publication and fired its media adviser, moves widely criticized as censorship of student journalists. Shared governance eroded further in Texas, where a new law disbanded faculty senates at public universities and centralized authority in administrators and political appointees.\
National media were not spared. President Trump refiled and expanded a $15 billion defamation lawsuit against the New York Times and several reporters, after an earlier version had been dismissed. The sheer size of the claim, and its persistence, used the threat of ruinous damages to pressure a leading investigative outlet. At the same time, Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington sued DHS and the National Archives over missing text-message records, warning that failures to preserve digital communications were erasing parts of the historical record. Government messaging channels were used for partisan narratives: automated out-of-office emails blamed Democrats for the shutdown, and Homeland Security Secretary Kristi Noem produced videos for airports and transit systems that cast the crisis as the opposition\'92s fault, though many public authorities refused to air them.\
The rules of electoral competition were also being rewritten. In North Carolina, Republican legislative leaders announced plans to redraw congressional maps mid-decade to add an extra GOP seat. The state Senate\'92s elections committee scheduled a meeting to advance the controversial plan, moving quickly toward maps expected to dilute minority and opposition representation. At the national level, the Supreme Court heard arguments in Louisiana v. Callais, a case that could narrow the reach of Section 2 of the Voting Rights Act and make it harder to challenge racially discriminatory redistricting.\
Representation inside Congress itself came under strain. Speaker Johnson\'92s decision to keep the House adjourned had the practical effect of delaying the swearing-in of Adelita Grijalva, an elected Democrat from Arizona. State Attorney General Kris Mayes demanded that Johnson seat her and then sued to compel it, arguing that constituents were being denied their rightful voice in the chamber. The case highlighted how procedural control over the calendar could be used to withhold representation without formally canceling an election.\
Outside these formal arenas, citizens organized. The \'93No Kings\'94 rallies were one expression of that, explicitly linking gerrymandering and executive overreach. Democratic governors from fifteen states formed a public health alliance to coordinate disease tracking and vaccine access in response to federal funding cuts, building an alternative network of governance. In California and elsewhere, state-level vetoes and bills shaped how environmental and racial justice issues would be handled, sometimes reinforcing, sometimes resisting, national trends.\
Economic and foreign policy decisions during the week were deeply entangled with private financial interests. The administration approved a $20 billion bailout for Argentina, then moved to double it to $40 billion, despite internal acknowledgments that the package would not significantly benefit the United States. The deal was widely seen as aiding a hedge fund ally with large Argentine holdings. Senator Elizabeth Warren and colleagues introduced legislation to block the bailout, seeking to reassert congressional control over such large commitments, but the executive branch had already set the course.\
In the Gulf, a similar pattern emerged. A United Arab Emirates state fund, MGX, completed a $2 billion pre-issuance purchase of a Trump-linked stablecoin through World Liberty Financial. Shortly afterward, the administration made favorable decisions on chip exports that benefited the same foreign partner. Saudi Arabia agreed to invest heavily in Trump-connected ventures, and in parallel, the U.S. approved a nearly $142 billion arms sale to the kingdom. President Trump issued an executive order extending NATO-like security guarantees to Qatar, a country whose elites had provided him with significant gifts, including a private jet. Foreign policy commitments, defense exports, and personal business interests overlapped in ways that blurred the line between public and private gain.\
Domestic economic policy carried the same imprint. The administration threatened 100 percent tariffs on Chinese imports, then carved out exemptions for the AI sector, favoring a strategic industry with close ties to capital and the executive. IRS enforcement plans were reshaped to facilitate criminal inquiries into left-leaning groups and donors, turning tax administration into a potential tool for selective punishment. Meanwhile, the costs of these choices fell on ordinary people. Canceled infrastructure projects, degraded weather forecasting, and defunded climate resilience in places like Kipnuk shifted risk onto communities with little say in the decisions.\
Beneath these headline moves, the national story and public space were being rewritten. For Columbus Day, President Trump issued a proclamation celebrating Christopher Columbus as an \'93original American hero,\'94 framing conquest and colonization as the foundation of a proud, white Christian nation. The administration used the occasion to attack critical histories that emphasized Indigenous dispossession and violence. At the same time, it moved to sell the Wilbur J. Cohen Federal Building, home to murals celebrating the Social Security Act and the broader welfare state. The sale, embedded in a water bill, combined material and symbolic rollback of New Deal-era commitments.\
The president spoke openly of shifting away from the Social Security model toward \'93rugged individualism,\'94 casting social insurance as a mistake rather than an achievement. Plans were unveiled for a triumphal arch in Washington, D.C., funded by private donors but designed as a grand monument near core national symbols. A lavish new White House ballroom was also proposed. These projects used public space and quasi-public funds to elevate leader-centric imagery and nationalist narratives, while spaces that commemorated social equality and shared risk were devalued or sold off.\
Inside the governing coalition, struggles over identity and extremism surfaced in smaller episodes. A swastika-modified U.S. flag displayed in a congressional office drew investigation by Capitol Police and raised questions about the presence of hate symbols in official spaces. Leaked racist chats among young Republican leaders led to the disbanding of a state youth group, even as some senior figures, including the vice president, downplayed the messages as youthful indiscretion. These incidents showed how the boundaries of acceptable rhetoric were being tested and, in some quarters, stretched.\
Against this broad consolidation, resistance did not disappear. It took the form of lawsuits, injunctions, and alternative institutions. Courts ordered ICE to remove an unlawful fence blocking access to a detention facility, reopening a public street and restoring space for protest and oversight. They limited warrantless immigration arrests, blocked federalized Guard deployments in Illinois, and required body cameras for immigration officers in Chicago. Judges halted some of the shutdown-era layoffs, protecting civil servants from immediate dismissal.\
Civil society groups and business organizations joined the fight. The U.S. Chamber of Commerce sued to block the new $100,000 H\uc0\u8209 1B visa fee, arguing that it violated law and harmed firms reliant on skilled foreign labor. CREW\'92s litigation over missing DHS text messages sought to enforce record-keeping laws and preserve the digital trail of government decisions. Residents of Gloster, Mississippi, filed suit against a biomass company over air pollution, raising environmental justice claims in a low-income community. Survivors of clergy and county-employee abuse secured large settlements in New Orleans and Los Angeles, forcing powerful institutions to reckon with past harms.\
State leaders modeled different norms. Illinois Governor JB Pritzker released detailed tax filings, including gambling winnings and income, as a gesture of financial transparency. Democratic governors\'92 public health alliance built capacity for disease tracking and vaccine distribution outside federal channels. Prosecutors pursued hate-threat cases, such as the man who agreed to plead guilty for threatening an LGBTQ+ Pride event, signaling that some forms of targeted intimidation would still meet firm legal response. These actions did not reverse the national trajectory, but they showed that not all centers of power were aligned with the regime\'92s project.\
Looking ahead, several processes already in motion promised to shape the next phase. The North Carolina Senate\'92s scheduled meeting on redistricting would determine whether the proposed gerrymander became law. The Supreme Court\'92s eventual ruling in Louisiana v. Callais would clarify how much protection Section 2 of the Voting Rights Act still offered against discriminatory maps. Arizona\'92s lawsuit to compel the swearing-in of Adelita Grijalva would test whether procedural control in the House could be used to deny representation. And the Steady State group\'92s warning about competitive authoritarianism would either be heeded or absorbed into the noise.\
In the arc of Trump\'92s second term, Week 39 marked a deepening of patterns rather than a break. Executive power continued to stretch into spaces once guarded by Congress, inspectors general, and neutral civil servants. Law and immigration tools were applied in ways that made dissent and noncitizen status more precarious. Information channels and public memory were curated to favor a nationalist, leader-centered story. Yet courts, unions, states, and communities still found ways to resist, even if only at the margins. The week\'92s small movement on the Democracy Clock reflected this tension: the structure of democracy grew more fragile, but it had not yet collapsed.\
}