{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26 \cf0 In Week 16, the story is not of a single shock but of many lines converging. Power moved through the system in ways that were often technical, sometimes theatrical, and almost always pointed in the same direction. The executive branch widened its reach, the civil service was pared back and bent, and the channels through which citizens see and judge their government were narrowed or repurposed. Yet the Democracy Clock did not move. It remained at 7:51 p.m. That stillness does not mean nothing changed. It means the week\'92s advances and resistances, taken together, left the overall balance of democratic risk where it was, even as the structure beneath shifted again.\
\
At the start of Week 16 the public time on the Democracy Clock stood at 7:51 p.m., and at the end it remained there. The net change in minutes was zero. That flat line masks a dense pattern of motion. On one side, the administration pressed hard on independent media, on the civil service, on immigrants, and on universities, and Congress helped roll back consumer and energy protections. On the other, courts in several cases held firm on elections and due process, civil society pushed back in the streets and in professional associations, and a few internal checks inside the state blunted the sharpest edges of executive ambition. The clock held because the week\'92s damage, though real, deepened traits that were already elevated rather than crossing a new threshold, and because pockets of resistance still had effect.\
\
The most striking development was the coordinated pressure on independent media and the parallel nurturing of state-aligned outlets. In March, an executive order to dismantle the US Agency for Global Media had already thrown Voice of America and its sister networks into darkness, placing 1,300 employees on leave and cutting grants to Radio Free Europe and Radio Free Asia. In Week 16, that order\'92s consequences hardened. A federal appeals court stayed a lower court\'92s injunction that would have restored funding and operations, citing deference to the executive on employment matters. Another panel partially revived the judge\'92s order, requiring some employees to be returned to work, but the net effect was limbo: journalists locked out of their newsroom, broadcasts still off the air, and the administration free to appeal and delay. The law here did not act as a limit. It became a maze that favored the side with time and power.\
\
At the same time, the administration moved to reshape what remained of government-linked media in its own image. Public broadcasting was targeted directly. An executive order cut off NPR and PBS from taxpayer funds through the Corporation for Public Broadcasting, with the White House framing the move as both cost-cutting and a blow against \'93radical woke propaganda.\'94 Smaller stations and rural communities, which rely most on public media, now faced the prospect of silence or dependence on private donors. The order did not censor content outright, but by starving these outlets of funds it pushed them toward either contraction or new patrons, both of which narrow the range of independent voices. The pressure was financial, but the aim was editorial.\
\
The vacuum created by defunding and dismantling was not left empty. Voice of America\'92s parent agency contracted with One America News to provide newsfeed and video services, even as VoA\'92s own journalists remained sidelined. OAN is known for conspiracy theories and a strong pro-Trump line. By inserting it into the heart of what had been a relatively neutral, outward-facing news service, the administration turned a tool of public diplomacy into a megaphone for its own narrative. This was not just a change of vendor. It was a redefinition of what counts as official truth.\
\
Regulators who once stood at arm\'92s length from content also moved closer to the political fight. The Federal Communications Commission, under Chairman Brendan Carr, opened a \'93news distortion\'94 investigation into CBS News after a 60 Minutes interview with Kamala Harris, echoing a lawsuit by the president that labeled the editing \'93election interference.\'94 Paramount Global, which owns CBS, responded by altering coverage, delaying a civic initiative to encourage local office candidacy, and watering down its diversity and inclusion programs, all to avoid jeopardizing a merger that required FCC approval. The chair of Paramount reportedly intervened in editorial decisions to appease regulators. In this way, the threat of license revocation and regulatory delay became a quiet but powerful lever on newsroom choices. The signal to other outlets was clear.\
\
The Department of Justice also shifted its posture toward the press. Attorney General Pam Bondi used critical reporting about the administration\'92s immigration claims as a pretext to roll back protections for journalists in leak investigations. Where earlier guidance had required high-level approval and narrow tailoring before subpoenaing reporters, the new stance widened the space for surveillance and legal pressure. Combined with the FCC\'92s actions and the restructuring of public media, this created a layered environment in which independent outlets faced financial, regulatory, and legal risks, while state-aligned or loyalist channels were invited in and funded. The information system tilted further toward those in power.\
\
Beneath the media surface, the civil service itself was being remade. The Department of Labor reported that nearly 2,700 employees\'97about a fifth of its workforce\'97had left through retirements, buyouts, or resignations, following cuts and reorganization orders. These departures weakened enforcement of wage, safety, and civil rights laws at home and labor protections abroad. At the Environmental Protection Agency, the office of science and technology was dissolved, and the Office of Research and Development was told that its 1,500 staff would need to reapply for roughly 400 positions. Budget cuts pushed the agency back toward staffing levels of the 1980s. The stated aim was efficiency and alignment with energy priorities; the practical effect was to strip away independent scientific capacity. Expertise was treated as a problem to be solved, not a resource to be used.\
\
The pattern extended across health and emergency management. At Health and Human Services and the National Institutes of Health, Robert F. Kennedy Jr. and his team fired thousands of employees, including 200 more this week, with 50 from the National Cancer Institute. The Department of Government Efficiency, led by Elon Musk, had already orchestrated a \'93Valentine\'92s Day massacre\'94 of probationary federal workers across agencies. Courts had ordered at least 24,000 reinstatements, but the Supreme Court\'92s intervention and the Office of Special Counsel\'92s decision to drop its inquiry into the firings left many workers in a state of confusion, rehired only to be placed on leave or dismissed again. The watchdog that might have probed the legality of the purge was itself turned away from the task. The message to remaining staff was simple. They served at the pleasure of politics, not law.\
\
Emergency management was not spared. The acting administrator of FEMA was fired one day after testifying against eliminating the agency, just weeks before hurricane season. The White House also removed the Black vice chair of the National Transportation Safety Board, breaking with modern precedent and signaling that even independent safety boards were not beyond reach. At the FAA, a hiring freeze on federal employees, including air traffic controllers, continued despite warnings about staffing shortages and a deadly collision involving an Army helicopter and a commercial jet. An outside expert panel examining air traffic control oversight was halted. In each case, the same logic applied: loyalty and short-term political goals over professional judgment and long-term safety. Risk was shifted from the government to the public.\
\
Appointments filled the gaps left by purges with figures chosen for allegiance or ideology. Marco Rubio, already Secretary of State, was named acting national security adviser, acting head of the National Archives, and acting administrator of USAID, concentrating disparate roles in one loyalist. Sid Rosenberg, a radio host with a record of racist remarks, was appointed to the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Council, a body charged with preserving the memory of genocide. At HHS, Vinay Prasad was elevated as a top vaccines official, and Casey Means, a wellness influencer with an inactive medical license and controversial views on vaccination, was nominated as surgeon general after the firing of Janette Nesheiwat. Andrew Giuliani was tapped to lead the World Cup task force. Ed Martin, whose nomination as U.S. attorney for the District of Columbia stalled amid concerns about his defense of January 6 defendants, was instead placed in charge of reviewing pardon requests at the Justice Department. These choices did not merely fill seats; they signaled that expertise and independence were secondary to loyalty and message discipline.\
\
Universities and cultural institutions found themselves on the front line of this new order. The Smithsonian Institution, and in particular the National Museum of African American History and Culture, was ordered to undergo an overhaul to remove what the president called \'93improper, divisive or anti-American ideology.\'94 The National Endowment for the Arts terminated dozens of grants and announced that future funding would favor projects aligned with the president\'92s vision of American heritage and creativity. In Congress, House Republicans advanced and then passed a bill to rename the Gulf of Mexico the \'93Gulf of America,\'94 turning cartography into a stage for nationalist assertion. These moves, taken together, showed how museums, arts funding, and even place names were being drawn into a struggle over which histories and identities the state would honor. Culture became another arm of policy.\
\
Higher education faced more direct coercion. Harvard University was told that billions in federal research grants and aid would be frozen unless it complied with demands from an antisemitism taskforce, demands that grew out of protests over Israel\'92s actions in Gaza. The university sued, arguing that the cuts would cripple medical and scientific research and that the conditions violated academic freedom. On Capitol Hill, House committees scheduled and held hearings on antisemitism on campuses, with a focus that critics saw as less about protecting Jewish students and more about disciplining institutions that tolerated certain forms of protest. At the same time, state and local actors pushed back in their own ways. Salt Lake City and Boise adopted official city flags incorporating pride and trans symbols to circumvent state bans on \'93unofficial\'94 flags, preserving space for LGBTQ representation in the face of state-level restrictions. The contest over who may speak, and under what terms, moved into city halls and courtrooms.\
\
The law itself was increasingly wielded as a weapon rather than a boundary. The family of Ashli Babbitt, killed while breaching the Capitol on January 6, reached a settlement in principle with the administration after a $30 million civil suit backed by Judicial Watch, signaling a willingness to compensate a loyalist figure from the insurrection. Enrique Tarrio, the former Proud Boys leader convicted of seditious conspiracy, received a presidential pardon. In contrast, New York Attorney General Letitia James, who had secured a massive civil penalty against the president in an earlier case, found herself under federal criminal investigation for alleged paperwork irregularities, with a grand jury impaneled in Virginia. She described the probe as retribution. The pattern was clear: allies were shielded or rewarded; adversaries were pursued.\
\
Immigration enforcement became a central theater for this instrumental use of law. The administration sought a massive increase in ICE funding through budget reconciliation: $45 billion for detention centers, $14.4 billion for transportation and removal, and $8 billion to hire 10,000 new officers. At the same time, it deputized thousands of agents from the DEA, FBI, IRS, and other agencies to assist ICE, and imposed a policy that any release of detained immigrants required approval from Washington headquarters. Overcrowding in detention facilities followed, as did a new initiative offering $1,000 and airfare to undocumented immigrants who agreed to self-deport, a program that glossed over the legal barriers to their return. These measures were justified in the language of security and order, but they built a quasi-permanent emergency regime in which immigrants\'92 rights were structurally weaker.\
\
The reach of this regime was felt not only by the undocumented. A Palestinian student, Mohsen Mahdawi, was detained during a naturalization interview and ordered deported despite no criminal charge; a judge later ordered his release, likening the government\'92s actions to McCarthyist repression. A Turkish doctoral student at Tufts, R\'fcmeysa \'d6zt\'fcrk, was detained after co-authoring an op-ed about her university\'92s response to the Gaza war; federal courts ordered her transfer back to Vermont and then her release, citing First Amendment and due process violations and warning of the chilling effect on non-citizens\'92 speech. An Irish green card holder, Cliona Ward, was held for 17 days over a decades-old conviction that had been overturned. In another case, a judge blocked the deportation of Venezuelan immigrants under the Alien Enemies Act, citing the risk of abuse in El Salvador\'92s mega-prison. These rulings showed that parts of the judiciary still recognized and resisted overreach, but they also underscored how far executive policy had moved toward treating immigration as a field where ordinary legal protections were negotiable.\
\
The administration\'92s own rhetoric reinforced this shift. In a televised interview, the president said he did not know whether everyone in the United States was entitled to due process, suggesting that honoring it might hinder his ability to remove those he deemed undesirable. When asked in Congress whether the Constitution guarantees due process to all, the Secretary of Homeland Security refused to answer. Stephen Miller, a senior adviser, publicly mused about suspending the writ of habeas corpus, a measure constitutionally reserved for invasion or insurrection. These were not yet acts, but they normalized the idea that core legal protections could be set aside for policy convenience. The ground was being prepared.\
\
Security forces were drawn into direct confrontation with elected officials who challenged this agenda. In Wisconsin, the administration\'92s \'93border czar\'94 threatened the Democratic governor with arrest after he advised state workers to consult lawyers before complying with ICE requests. In Newark, Mayor Ras Baraka, a Democratic candidate for governor, was arrested by ICE agents outside a new detention facility he opposed on permitting grounds, during a protest and oversight visit with three members of Congress. Video showed a chaotic scene; ICE officials accused Baraka of trespass and later threatened to arrest the visiting representatives as well. One of them, LaMonica McIver, was subsequently indicted for assaulting officers, despite her formal oversight role. The message was plain: federal enforcement would not only carry out immigration policy but also police the boundaries of who could question it.\
\
Courts, meanwhile, sent mixed signals about their own independence. On one side, a federal judge permanently struck down an executive order that had barred the law firm Perkins Coie from government contracts and federal buildings, calling it retaliatory and unconstitutional under the First, Fifth, and Sixth Amendments. Judges in North Carolina ordered the certification of Allison Riggs as the winner of a state supreme court race, rejecting efforts by her opponent to discard tens of thousands of ballots and blocking a state ruling that would have forced over 1,300 voters to prove eligibility after the fact. In immigration cases, judges blocked certain deportations and ordered detainees released, and the Judicial Conference moved to seek public comment on AI-generated evidence, signaling attention to new threats to fair trials. In these moments, law still acted as a limit.\
\
On the other side, the Supreme Court allowed the administration\'92s ban on transgender individuals serving in the military to take effect while litigation continued, issuing an unsigned order over the dissent of the three liberal justices. In a related case, it granted a stay in United States v. Shilling, halting a lower court\'92s injunction against a Defense Department policy excluding people with a history of gender dysphoria. A federal appeals court deferred to the executive in employment matters when it paused the injunction restoring Voice of America\'92s funding. Judges across the country expressed frustration with the quality of the Justice Department\'92s defenses of administration policies, citing flimsy evidence and defiance of court orders, yet these criticisms did not always translate into effective constraints. The result was a judiciary that sometimes checked power, sometimes enabled it, and often left vulnerable groups\'97immigrants, LGBTQ service members, journalists\'97dependent on the luck of venue and panel.\
\
Economic and regulatory policy moved in ways that favored concentrated interests and blurred the line between governance and private gain. Congress used the Congressional Review Act to nullify multiple Biden-era rules: energy conservation standards for commercial refrigeration, gas-fired water heaters, and walk-in coolers and freezers, as well as Consumer Financial Protection Bureau rules on digital payment platforms and overdraft fees at large banks. These disapprovals weakened oversight of major energy and financial sectors, easing burdens on manufacturers and banks while shifting costs to consumers and the climate. At the same time, tariffs were imposed or threatened across a wide range of goods, from auto parts to foreign-made movies, with justifications that mixed national security, cultural protection, and bargaining leverage. Some of these announcements were later walked back or contradicted by the White House, adding to a sense of deliberate chaos that made it harder for oversight bodies, markets, and allies to respond.\
\
Crony capitalism threaded through these choices. World Liberty Financial, a Trump family crypto firm, facilitated a $2 billion investment by an Abu Dhabi government venture into Binance using its own stablecoin, USD1, raising questions about foreign influence and the circumvention of campaign finance rules. The Trump Organization announced new projects in Dubai and Qatar, including a golf club partnership with a Qatari government-owned company, despite an ethics agreement that was supposed to bar direct deals with foreign governments. Large institutional investors increased their stakes in Trump Media, a company with weak financials but strong political ties, suggesting that access and favor, not fundamentals, were driving decisions. The administration signaled that licensing Starlink, Elon Musk\'92s satellite network, could be used as a goodwill gesture in trade talks, further entwining a single private firm\'92s infrastructure with U.S. diplomacy.\
\
Abroad, the administration\'92s posture was often confrontational or transactional. Tariffs on China and other trading partners were framed as \'93Liberation Day,\'94 even as they disrupted supply chains and raised costs for companies like Mattel and Ford. A trade framework with the UK was announced as \'93full and comprehensive,\'94 only for British officials to clarify that it was limited in scope. The Secretary of State criticized Germany for designating a far-right party as extremist, calling it \'93tyranny in disguise,\'94 aligning the U.S. rhetorically with forces that challenge democratic safeguards in Europe. In the Middle East, the administration pressured aid organizations to accept an Israeli plan for Gaza assistance that would route aid through hubs monitored by U.S. security contractors using facial recognition, a design that humanitarian groups warned could violate international law and facilitate forced displacement. State power and private contractors fused in a conflict zone.\
\
Against this backdrop, civil society and some state and local governments continued to act. About 1,500 lawyers gathered outside Manhattan\'92s federal courthouse on Law Day, holding pocket Constitutions and affirming their commitment to the rule of law. Students at California State University campuses began a hunger strike over Gaza and university investments in weapons manufacturers. Pro-Palestinian encampments at Swarthmore, the University of Washington, and Columbia were cleared by police, with arrests and suspensions, but also with public debate about protest rights and institutional responses. In Indiana, a Republican governor signed a law threatening to strip nonprofit hospitals of their status if they continued to charge high prices, a rare state-level move to confront healthcare costs. New York\'92s governor advanced inflation refund checks, middle-class tax cuts, and universal free school meals, using state policy to cushion economic strain. These actions did not reset the system, but they showed that other centers of power still moved.\
\
Looking ahead from Week 16, several processes were already in motion. The Senate and House had passed multiple resolutions under the Congressional Review Act, and more could follow, further rolling back regulatory protections. The courts would continue to hear challenges to the transgender military ban, the dismantling of Voice of America, the DOGE firings, and the Gaza aid plan. The budget reconciliation bill seeking vast ICE funding and detention expansion was moving through Congress. The administration had asked the Supreme Court to lift a block on ending a Biden-era immigration parole program that allowed hundreds of thousands to live and work in the U.S. The FCC\'92s investigation into CBS and Paramount\'92s settlement talks with the president over his lawsuit remained open, with implications for media independence and corporate behavior. These were not hypothetical risks; they were scheduled decisions whose outcomes would shape the next turns of the clock.\
\
At the close of Week 16, the Democracy Clock still read 7:51 p.m. That time captures a system in which formal structures remain\'97elections are held, courts sit, legislatures meet\'97but the content of those structures is being steadily altered. Executive power operates with fewer effective checks, law is more often a tool than a boundary, civil service roles are politicized, and entire sectors of media and regulation are being bent toward the interests of those in power and their allies. At the same time, judges, lawyers, students, local officials, and some members of Congress continue to resist, sometimes successfully. The week matters because it shows how much can change without moving the hands of the clock: how a democracy can be hollowed from within while its outer shell still stands. The time remains 7:51 p.m., but the room for error is smaller, and the work required to turn the hands back grows heavier with each such week.}