{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26 \cf0 Week 13 marks a shift from improvisation to pattern in Trump\'92s second term. The Democracy Clock moves from 7:50 to 7:51 p.m., a modest 1.5\uc0\u8209 minute slide that nonetheless captures a dense convergence of erosions. The administration openly resists Supreme Court and lower\u8209 court orders in the Kilmar \'c1brego Garc\'eda and Alien Enemies Act cases, arguing that deportation and foreign custody can place people beyond U.S. law. Migrants, students, and critics are targeted through deportations, visa revocations, and foreign prisons, while civil\u8209 rights enforcement is retooled to protect white grievance and dismantle disparate\u8209 impact protections. A new at\u8209 will civil\u8209 service category, polygraph sweeps, and retaliatory firings politicize the bureaucracy. Harvard and other institutions face funding freezes, tax threats, and visa leverage to coerce speech and governance. Voting is narrowed through proof\u8209 of\u8209 citizenship mandates and retroactive ballot challenges. Simultaneously, disinformation defenses are dismantled, archives and climate data are erased, and tariffs intertwine economic chaos with presidential enrichment. Courts, universities, states, and civil society resist, but increasingly on terrain defined by an executive treating oversight as optional.\
}