{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26 \cf0 Week 28 unfolds as a study in stillness that is anything but static. The Democracy Clock remains at 7:58 p.m., yet power continues to consolidate. The administration fires the head of the Bureau of Labor Statistics after an unwelcome jobs report, signaling that economic facts themselves are now conditional on loyalty. A dense lattice of tariffs, declared under emergency authorities, turns trade into a standing instrument of presidential rule and foreign punishment. Courts slow some initiatives\'97blocking an attack on birthright citizenship and preserving Planned Parenthood reimbursements\'97even as the judiciary is reshaped through partisan confirmations, politicized U.S. attorney appointments, and retaliation against critical judges. Immigration, welfare, and detention policy harden a stratified citizenship, with mass status revocations, expanded camps, and historic Medicaid and SNAP cuts. Universities, media, and civic education face funding threats and ideological tests. Meanwhile, selective secrecy around Epstein files and a Qatar-funded Air Force One retrofit shows archives and symbols curated to protect the regime. Resistance persists, but on increasingly tilted ground.\
}