{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26 \cf0 By Week 8 of Trump\'92s second term, the pattern that had been emerging hardened into something more deliberate. Power no longer moved in scattered bursts; it flowed along channels that were being widened and reinforced. The week\'92s events showed a government not only willing to bend rules, but to thin out the very institutions that once enforced them, and to decide who counted as part of the political community at all. The Democracy Clock, which had stood at 7:44 p.m., moved forward to 7:49 p.m. The five\uc0\u8209 minute shift captured not a single dramatic break, but a dense cluster of decisions that made it easier to rule by decree, harder to see what was being done, and more dangerous to stand outside the favored circle.\
\
The previous week had ended with the clock at 7:44 p.m., already well past the calm of early evening. At the close of Week 8, it read 7:49 p.m., a net movement of 4.4 minutes toward midnight. That change came from three linked moves. First, the administration deepened its use of law as a weapon rather than a limit, targeting disfavored law firms, city governments, and individual activists while shielding allies. Second, it accelerated the hollowing out and politicization of the civil service, using Elon Musk\'92s Department of Government Efficiency as a parallel state to fire workers, cancel leases, and dismantle agencies. Third, it struck at the infrastructure of transparency and memory itself, ordering records destroyed, starving independent media, and closing off advisory channels. Alongside these structural shifts, the week marked a sharp turn in the meaning of citizenship, as birthright was revoked on paper and immigration powers were readied for mass, discretionary use.\
\
The clearest expression of law as a weapon came in a pair of executive orders and a speech at the Department of Justice. One order singled out the law firm Paul Weiss, long associated with cases against Trump allies, for special punishment. It directed agencies to review and potentially terminate contracts with the firm, to suspend or revoke security clearances, and to cut off federal services. The stated rationale was national interest and alleged discrimination, but the pattern was plain: the presidency was using the machinery of the state to retaliate against a private legal adversary. In another setting, Trump praised a federal judge, Aileen Cannon, for dismissing his own classified\uc0\u8209 documents case, calling her a model and suggesting that criticism of judges should itself be illegal. In the same speech, he lauded a loyalist prosecutor for forcing the dismissal of a corruption case against New York\'92s mayor. Together, these acts showed a Justice Department drawn closer to the president\'92s personal and political needs, and a judiciary in which favored judges were rewarded for rulings that broke with long\u8209 standing precedent. Law still existed, but its edge was turned outward against critics and blunted when it touched the powerful.\
\
Immigration law became the sharpest of these tools. The case of Mahmoud Khalil, a Palestinian activist and Columbia graduate, concentrated many of the week\'92s fault lines. Khalil, a lawful permanent resident, was arrested by plainclothes ICE agents at his university housing and moved to detention in Louisiana. His green card was revoked on the basis of a rarely used foreign\uc0\u8209 policy provision that allows the Secretary of State to deem a person\'92s presence harmful to US interests. The administration alleged that his campus activism was \'93aligned with Hamas,\'94 yet brought no criminal charges. Trump himself called the arrest the first of many to come. Khalil\'92s lawyers filed habeas petitions, civil rights groups rallied, and federal judges in New York and elsewhere issued orders blocking his deportation while the courts reviewed the case. The message to students and immigrants was unmistakable. Political speech, if it crossed an invisible line, could be recast as a national security threat, and the ordinary protections of due process could be set aside.\
\
Khalil\'92s case did not stand alone. The Department of Homeland Security announced plans to revoke visas and green cards of those \'93deemed\'94 to support Hamas, without clear standards. A Columbia student\'92s visa was revoked, leading to self\uc0\u8209 deportation. ICE detained a naturalized citizen in Virginia during a sweep, despite his valid documents, and a New Hampshire green card holder reported torture\u8209 like treatment at Logan Airport: violent interrogation, sleep deprivation, denial of medication. A family with a ten\u8209 year\u8209 old girl recovering from brain cancer was detained and deported while traveling to a medical appointment, even though the children were US citizens. At the same time, the administration resumed family detention in Texas, reopened private facilities, and began deporting mixed\u8209 nationality groups to Panama and Costa Rica, where they were held in poor conditions with limited access to counsel. These actions blurred the line between citizen and non\u8209 citizen protections and made clear that, in practice, legal status could be overridden by appearance, origin, or perceived politics.\
\
The week\'92s most far\uc0\u8209 reaching move on belonging came not at a border crossing but on paper. Trump declared that birthright citizenship for children of non\u8209 citizen parents was over. An executive order signed on his first day in office had already sought to restrict jus soli; now the administration asked the Supreme Court to lift injunctions from three district courts and allow enforcement to proceed. Federal judges in Massachusetts, Maryland, and Washington had blocked the order as unconstitutional, and another judge had already declared a related birthright order invalid. The administration\'92s emergency appeals framed these injunctions as improper restraints on executive power. In parallel, Trump suspended the refugee resettlement program and declared a national emergency at the southern border, unlocking additional funding and authority. Taken together, these steps did more than change policy. They redrew the conceptual map of who could ever become fully American, and under what terms, and they normalized the use of emergency powers to settle long\u8209 running political disputes.\
\
While the legal meaning of citizenship was being contested, the material foundations of the state were being rearranged by a new axis of power: the president and Elon Musk\'92s Department of Government Efficiency. DOGE, a quasi\uc0\u8209 agency run from the White House, had already been cutting contracts and boasting of vast savings. This week, its reach deepened. On February 13, OPM, under White House and DOGE direction, had instructed agencies to fire thousands of probationary employees. By Week 8, the consequences were visible. The Department of Education announced the layoff of more than 1,300 employees, roughly half its workforce, with civil rights offices especially hard hit. The US Fish and Wildlife Service faced layoffs and hiring freezes that threatened endangered species work. HHS offered buyouts to tens of thousands of staff in the midst of a measles outbreak. The Veterans Administration prepared to cut 80,000 jobs, one\u8209 fifth of its workforce, even as it forced therapists into open cubicles that compromised patient privacy. These were not isolated cuts. They formed a pattern of hollowing out the professional civil service in favor of a leaner, more pliable apparatus.\
\
Courts did not stand idle in the face of this purge. In California, Judge William Alsup issued a preliminary injunction ordering the immediate reinstatement of tens of thousands of fired probationary workers across six departments, calling the government\'92s performance\uc0\u8209 based justifications a \'93sham.\'94 In Maryland, Judge James Bredar issued a temporary restraining order blocking further firings at eighteen agencies, including Education, and signaled that the scheme was likely illegal. Another judge ordered DOGE to treat itself as subject to the Freedom of Information Act and to begin producing internal records on a rolling basis. A separate ruling by Judge Tanya Chutkan compelled Musk and DOGE to disclose the identities of staffers and details of their cost\u8209 cutting operations in a lawsuit brought by fourteen state attorneys general. These decisions did not restore the lost capacity overnight, but they reasserted that even a parallel state must answer to law, and that mass firings cannot be shielded behind vague claims of efficiency.\
\
Yet even as judges pushed for transparency, the administration moved to erase its own footprints. The most striking example came from USAID. Staff received an email instructing them to shred or burn agency records, despite federal laws requiring preservation. This \'93burn order\'94 arrived in the same week that DOGE\'92s savings claims were exposed as inflated by at least 92 percent, and as USAID\'92s own programs in food aid and emergency relief were being dismantled. Destroying records in such a moment did more than violate procedure. It cut away the very archive that future investigators, historians, and courts would need to reconstruct what had been done with US power and money abroad. The Democracy Clock registered this as one of the sharpest movements of the week: a direct attack on the memory of government.\
\
The assault on transparency extended beyond paper. The Federal Election Commission canceled an open meeting that had been scheduled under the Sunshine Act. The Census Bureau canceled advisory committee meetings on the 2030 Census and on racial and ethnic populations, reducing public input into the design of the country\'92s core demographic instrument. DOGE quietly altered its website to remove the detailed contract information that had allowed reporters to verify its savings claims against federal databases. Elon Musk then attacked the independent \'93Musk Watch DOGE Tracker\'94 that had documented the overstatement, choosing to smear the messenger rather than engage the data. In another corner of the information system, the US Agency for Global Media\'97home to Voice of America, Radio Free Europe, and other outlets\'97was defunded by executive order. Around 3,500 employees faced job loss, and foreign journalists risked deportation back to authoritarian states where their reporting could cost them their freedom or lives. Chinese and Russian state media openly welcomed the move. Independent media, both domestic and international, were being starved at the same time that state\uc0\u8209 aligned and foreign authoritarian outlets thrived.\
\
Public health information was pulled into the same vortex. Robert F. Kennedy Jr., now Secretary of Health and Human Services, used a Fox News appearance to claim that the MMR vaccine caused deaths and illnesses, contradicting the CDC\'92s long\uc0\u8209 standing position that the vaccine is far safer than the diseases it prevents. Under his leadership, the CDC\'92s Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices canceled one of its three annual meetings, and a similar FDA vaccine advisory meeting was also called off. At the same time, HHS announced clinical trials of alternative measles treatments\'97steroids, antibiotics, cod liver oil\'97that experts did not regard as substitutes for vaccination. The National Institutes of Health cut funding for forty studies on vaccine confidence. These moves, taken during the worst measles outbreak in Texas in three decades, did not simply reflect a different scientific judgment. They shifted the institutional base of knowledge away from evidence and toward ideology. The public was left with fewer trustworthy signals in a moment of risk.\
\
Economic power, too, was wielded in ways that blurred public purpose and private interest. Tariffs were the main instrument. The administration imposed a 25 percent tariff on all imported steel and aluminum, including from Canada and Mexico, and threatened to double Canadian rates to 50 percent before partially walking back the threat. The European Union responded with countermeasures on up to \'8026 billion of US goods, and Canada announced its own retaliatory tariffs. Trump then threatened a 200 percent tariff on European wines, champagnes, and other alcoholic products if the EU did not remove its 50 percent tariff on American whiskey. The threat came as he continued to own a winery. Markets reacted sharply: major indices fell, and analysts described the economy as \'93wobbly.\'94 Yet the administration framed the pain as a necessary \'93de\uc0\u8209 tox period,\'94 a cleansing on the way to a future free of \'93globalists.\'94 The costs of this strategy\'97lost jobs, higher prices, strained alliances\'97were borne by workers, consumers, and small producers, while the power to decide and the potential gains from leverage remained concentrated at the top.\
\
Inside the domestic economy, the same pattern of offloading risk and privatizing public goods appeared in quieter decisions. The Department of Agriculture cut more than $1 billion from programs that allowed schools and food banks to buy from local farms, threatening both child nutrition and small agricultural businesses. The Social Security Administration changed its overpayment rules to allow 100 percent withholding of benefits, regardless of fault, pushing vulnerable recipients toward destitution. The administration closed applications for all income\uc0\u8209 driven student loan repayment plans and narrowed access to Public Service Loan Forgiveness, increasing the financial burden on millions of borrowers, especially those in government and nonprofit work. Treasury officials spoke openly of shrinking and privatizing federal services. DOGE announced the termination of 793 federal office leases, including for the IRS and Social Security, in the name of saving $500 million, even as agencies warned of reduced in\u8209 person service. In each case, the state\'92s obligations to provide stable, universal goods\'97food, education, retirement security, physical access to offices\'97were thinned, and space was opened for private intermediaries and landlords to step in.\
\
Civil society did not accept these changes in silence. Thousands of researchers and their supporters joined \'93Stand Up for Science\'94 protests in more than 150 events across the country. On International Women\'92s Day, 300 demonstrations challenged administration policies. Senator Bernie Sanders toured under the banner \'93Fighting Oligarchy: Where We Go From Here,\'94 drawing large crowds and linking economic inequality to democratic erosion. Protesters gathered outside Tesla dealerships and charging stations, chanting \'93democracy, not oligarchy,\'94 in response to Musk\'92s role in government cuts. In North Carolina, Democrats organized rallies at the state legislature, planned to pack the gallery, and scheduled an \'93empty chair\'94 town hall for a senator who had declined to meet constituents. Jewish Voice for Peace and allied groups occupied Trump Tower\'92s lobby to demand Khalil\'92s release, leading to nearly 100 arrests. These actions showed that the public still had the will and capacity to mobilize. But they also revealed the costs. Trump labeled Tesla protesters \'93domestic terrorists.\'94 Police used trespass and obstruction charges to clear the Trump Tower sit\uc0\u8209 in. Universities, under federal pressure, expelled or sanctioned students for past protests. Protest remained legal, but it carried rising personal risk.\
\
Abroad, the United States stepped further away from its postwar role as a guarantor of democratic norms. The administration withdrew from a global climate loss\uc0\u8209 and\u8209 damage agreement and formally exited the Paris Climate Accord, even as it promoted fossil fuel expansion in Africa and negotiated energy deals with Japan and Ukraine that tied military aid and tariffs to oil and gas flows. It vetoed a G7 proposal to target Russia\'92s \'93shadow fleet\'94 of oil tankers and pushed to strip references to sanctions and the war in Ukraine from joint statements. It halted military aid and intelligence sharing with Ukraine, then resumed them only after Kyiv agreed to a 30\u8209 day ceasefire on US terms. At the same time, the administration publicly endorsed Russia\'92s war aims, threatened not to defend NATO allies who did not increase spending, and floated withdrawal from NATO altogether. European countries responded by ramping up their own defense budgets and moving toward rearmament. International watchdogs added the US to a human rights watchlist, citing assaults on democratic norms and global cooperation. The country that had once anchored a rules\u8209 based order was now a source of instability within it.\
\
Inside the security establishment, norms that had constrained the use of force were being rewritten. Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth announced a plan to overhaul the judge advocate general\'92s corps to \'93relax\'94 the rules of war. His personal lawyer, Tim Parlatore, was commissioned to lead the effort. Military lawyers would be retrained to give more permissive advice, commanders would have greater freedom to pursue aggressive tactics, and charging decisions for battlefield crimes would become more lenient. At the same time, the White House ordered the FBI to stop conducting background checks on top staffers, transferring that function to the Pentagon. Fort Bliss was slated to become an immigrant detention center. Five former defense secretaries called for hearings on Trump\'92s firings of senior military leaders, warning of politicization. These moves did not yet amount to open defiance of international humanitarian law, but they shifted the internal compass of the armed forces away from civilian protection and toward regime priorities.\
\
Against this backdrop of consolidation and erosion, the judiciary remained the most consistent source of resistance. Judges blocked the deportation of Khalil, halted teacher\uc0\u8209 training cuts, demanded evidence for the cancellation of climate grants, ordered the reinstatement of fired federal workers, and forced DOGE under FOIA. A judge in Boston stopped the administration\'92s attempt to slash hundreds of millions from teacher training programs, citing the nationwide shortage and the apparent ideological motive of targeting diversity initiatives. Another judge, Beryl Howell, issued a temporary restraining order against an executive order that punished the law firm Perkins Coie, calling the national security rationale a pretext and likening the order to an unconstitutional bill of attainder. In Texas, courts paused an execution to allow DNA testing and review of new evidence. These rulings did not reverse the week\'92s structural shifts, but they showed that some guardrails still held, and that law could still act as a limit when wielded by independent judges.\
\
Looking ahead from Week 8, several processes were already in motion. The Supreme Court had been asked to bless the restriction of birthright citizenship, a decision that would define the meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment for generations. Federal courts were demanding records from DOGE and the EPA, with deadlines set for new filings and document production. The Senate was moving toward final passage of the Trump\uc0\u8209 aligned continuing resolution, which would lock in spending cuts and tariff powers through September. Advisory meetings on chemicals, pesticides, and clinical practice were rescheduled or reopened for comment, even as vaccine and census advisory bodies were canceled. Protests and \'93People\'92s Town Halls\'94 were scheduled in key districts, and civil society groups were organizing classes on how state legislatures function. The machinery of both consolidation and resistance was already turning.\
\
By the end of the week, the Democracy Clock\'92s new time\'977:49 p.m.\'97captured a country in which the formal shell of democracy remained, but the inner workings had been altered in ways that would be hard to undo. Law was increasingly selective, shielding allies and punishing critics. The civil service was being thinned and bent toward loyalty. Transparency and memory were under direct attack, from USAID\'92s burn order to the defunding of global media. Citizenship itself was being stratified by origin and ideology, with birthright revoked on paper and emergency powers readied for mass use. At the same time, judges, journalists, and protesters still found ways to push back, to demand records, to block deportations, to stand in lobbies and streets and say no. That tension\'97between a government closing in and a society still reaching out\'97defined Week 8. It is why the clock moved, and why the minutes it gained matter. The official time at the close of the period is 7:49 p.m. The day is not over, but the light is fading, and the work of holding on grows harder with each passing minute.}