{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 .SFNS-Semibold;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 .SFNS-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red14\green14\blue14;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c6700\c6700\c6700;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs44 \cf2 Appendix Introduction
\f1\b0\fs28 \cf2 \
\
The chapters that follow offer the tools a citizen, a candidate, or an organizer may need when the work moves from reflection to action. The book\'92s purpose has been to clarify what must be repaired and why, but repair is not achieved through understanding alone. It requires language, structure, and practices that can be used in real conversations, in real communities, under real pressures. These pages exist for that work.\
\
Nothing in the appendix is meant to be read straight through. It is a toolbox, not a sequence. Some readers will come here to prepare for a town hall. Others will use a field card to guide a conversation, a letter to shape a message, or a checklist to steady their thinking before a vote. The methods, templates, and scripts are simple by design. They are meant to be picked up quickly, adapted easily, and applied without hesitation.\
\
The appendix does not add new arguments. It distills what the book has already set out: the promises a republic must keep, the structure that allows it to function, the deliverables that measure its success, and the moral floor that keeps power within bounds. Each tool points back to those foundations. Each is an aid in the long work of helping neighbors see clearly, assisting candidates to speak honestly, and helping communities act with purpose.\
\
A republic is strengthened by people who know how to use their power. These tools exist to make that power easier to exercise. Take what you need, share what helps others, and return to them whenever the work ahead feels scattered or overwhelming. They are here so that the path back is not only understood, but lived.}