{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26 \cf0 Week 13: Loyalty as Daily Governance\
In Trump\'92s thirteenth week, deportation, civil rights law, and information itself were methodically repurposed to reward loyalty and raise the cost of dissent.\
The thirteenth week of Trump\'92s second term did not hinge on a single order or speech. Its shape emerged from the way power was used across many fronts at once: in courts and prisons, on campuses and trading floors, inside agencies and newsrooms. What tied these moves together was not noise but method. Law, money, and information were bent toward the same end\'97making loyalty safer than dissent, and turning the costs of resistance into a quiet, daily fact of life.\
At the close of Week 12, the Democracy Clock stood at 7:56 p.m. By the end of Week 13, it read 7:57 p.m., a net movement of 0.2 minutes. The shift was small in measure and large in meaning. It reflected not a coup or a single rupture, but the accumulation of choices that made executive orders harder to challenge, deportations harder to reverse, and elections easier to tilt while still looking lawful. Courts, states, and civil society pushed back in visible ways. Yet the week\'92s balance of power moved further toward an executive willing to treat law as a tool rather than a boundary.\
The clearest test of whether courts still constrained the presidency came through the fate of Kilmar \'c1brego Garc\'eda and those swept up under the Alien Enemies Act. The administration had already acknowledged that \'c1brego\'92s deportation to El Salvador was wrongful, yet left him in a foreign mega\uc0\u8209 prison built for mass incarceration. At the same time, it used the Alien Enemies Act to send Venezuelan migrants to the same facility, often without individualized proof of threat. Deportation, in this scheme, was not just removal from U.S. soil. It was transfer into a harsher, less visible system where American law was meant to fade.\
The Supreme Court\'92s response was unusually clear. In a 9\'960 ruling, it ordered the government to facilitate \'c1brego\'92s return, insisting that a wrongful deportation did not end the reach of U.S. law. Lower courts followed with fact\uc0\u8209 finding orders, sworn declarations, and deadlines. A district judge demanded explanations for why the government had not complied and opened discovery into who had made which decisions. In parallel, another judge found probable cause for criminal contempt against officials who had ignored an injunction on Alien Enemies Act deportations, signaling that defiance could carry personal legal risk.\
The administration answered not with compliance but with delay and misdirection. Public messaging misrepresented the Supreme Court\'92s ruling as a victory, even as officials failed to act. The deportation agreement with El Salvador, which governed the very prisons where \'c1brego and others were held, was classified, shielding its terms from Congress, courts, and the public. When contempt findings loomed, the government rushed to file emergency motions to block proceedings, arguing that foreign\uc0\u8209 affairs powers insulated its choices. The legal fight became less about one man\'92s return and more about whether the executive could place its detention decisions beyond meaningful review.\
Behind the litigation, the White House coordinated directly with President Nayib Bukele. Reporting from the week showed the two leaders discussing not only keeping \'c1brego in El Salvador despite court orders, but also the possibility of sending U.S. citizens labeled \'93homegrown criminals\'94 to the same mega\uc0\u8209 prisons. That conversation crossed a line. It treated a unanimous Supreme Court ruling as a political input rather than a binding command, and it treated the liberty of residents and even citizens as a subject for bargaining between executives. The contempt findings, emergency motions, and edited New York Times front page that erased the word \'93wrongly\'94 from \'c1brego\'92s description all pointed in the same direction. Court orders would be endured, spun, and, where possible, evaded.\
The same logic\'97law as weapon, not limit\'97ran through the administration\'92s use of immigration and citizenship tools against dissenters, students, and even citizens. In Louisiana, an immigration judge ordered Mahmoud Khalil deported based on his political views and associations, relying on a memo rather than criminal conduct. On campuses, Palestinian and other scholars and students saw visas revoked, bail denied, and status stripped in response to activism or speech. More than 1,300 international students lost legal status en masse, with litigation left to sort out whether any individualized process was required. The pattern was plain.\
Errors and overreach did not stop at noncitizens. A U.S.\uc0\u8209 born man was detained under a state immigration law, and a citizen lawyer received an erroneous notice ordering him to leave the country. At the border, Customs and Border Protection officers stopped and searched the phone of a lawyer representing a pro\u8209 Palestinian protester, blurring the line between security screening and surveillance of legal advocacy. At the policy level, the administration froze an automated Social Security number program for noncitizens, forcing in\u8209 person visits that strained field offices and made lawful work harder to begin.\
New tools of scrutiny reached beyond physical borders. The State Department announced social\uc0\u8209 media vetting for visa applicants who had visited Gaza, effectively tying entry to a review of online speech and associations. At the same time, federal courts heard challenges to mass visa revocations and fast\u8209 track deportations to third countries without fear screenings, while the Supreme Court agreed to hear arguments on Trump\'92s birthright\u8209 citizenship executive order. The legal battleground widened, but the pattern was consistent. Lawful presence, and even the meaning of citizenship itself, were being made contingent on ideology, origin, or perceived alignment with the regime.\
Civil rights enforcement, once designed to protect those most at risk of discrimination, was turned inward and upside down. The president signed an executive order eliminating disparate\uc0\u8209 impact liability across federal civil rights enforcement, instructing agencies to deprioritize cases where policies had discriminatory effects without explicit intent. That single move hollowed out decades of doctrine that had allowed plaintiffs to challenge systemic racism in housing, education, and employment. It did not repeal statutes on paper. It removed the main way those statutes had been made real.\
At the same time, the administration targeted transgender people through both law and leverage. A nationwide executive order barred transgender women from women\'92s sports, while the Justice Department sued Maine and threatened to cut education funds unless the state banned transgender girls from girls\'92 teams. Federal litigation over Title IX interpretation placed courts at the center of defining sex discrimination, but the immediate signal from Washington was blunt. Access to federal money would depend on excluding a vulnerable minority from full participation in school life.\
The leadership and mission of the Justice Department\'92s Civil Rights Division shifted to match this new landscape. Under Harmeet Dhillon, the division rewrote its mission statements to emphasize voter fraud and the protection of white people from discrimination, while downplaying traditional priorities like enforcing the Voting Rights Act and guarding marginalized communities. In parallel, the administration froze Title X family\uc0\u8209 planning funds, proposed deep cuts to health agencies, and moved to terminate Head Start funding, steps that would fall hardest on low\u8209 income and minority communities. Civil rights groups sued over anti\u8209 DEI policies and book bans in Pentagon schools, but they were now litigating against a federal apparatus that had been repurposed to police them rather than protect them.\
Voting rules and election administration were reshaped under the banner of integrity. From the White House, an executive order required documentary proof of citizenship to vote, a standard that many eligible voters\'97especially naturalized citizens, students, and low\uc0\u8209 income residents\'97would struggle to meet. In Congress, the House passed the Save Act, which demanded similar proof to register and curtailed mail and online registration. Republican\u8209 controlled state legislatures introduced matching bills, building a coordinated framework that would narrow the electorate while claiming to guard against fraud.\
Courts and election authorities in North Carolina showed how these rules could play out in practice. In a close state supreme court race, hundreds of ballots were invalidated based on residency challenges backed by the losing candidate. Subsequent moves sought to restore some of those votes, but appellate courts also endorsed broad eligibility challenges after the fact. The message was that election outcomes could be contested not only at the ballot box but through legal maneuvers aimed at disqualifying voters. Against this backdrop, the Civil Rights Division\'92s new focus on voter fraud and white discrimination claims meant that federal enforcement would likely reinforce, rather than restrain, these trends. The Federal Election Commission\'92s routine setting of dates and reporting rules for a Texas special election offered a glimpse of normal, neutral administration. It sat in the shadow of a much larger shift.\
Universities, long treated as semi\uc0\u8209 autonomous spaces for research and debate, came under direct financial and regulatory pressure. The clearest case was Harvard. After the university refused to accept federal demands over governance, speech, and hiring, the administration froze $2.3 billion in federal funding, including research and grants. DHS cut security\u8209 related grants and demanded detailed records on international students, while threatening the school\'92s authority to certify visas. Harvard\'92s leaders publicly rejected the conditions, defending academic freedom and institutional autonomy, but they now did so with core funding and student status at risk.\
The pressure did not stop at one campus. The administration revoked visas and legal status for over 1,300 international students across institutions, often tied to activism or perceived political risk. The freeze of the Social Security Enumeration Beyond Entry program forced noncitizens into in\uc0\u8209 person visits to obtain basic documentation, adding friction to academic and professional life. In military and Pentagon\u8209 run schools, hundreds of books on slavery, civil rights, and the Holocaust were removed under anti\u8209 DEI directives, even as extremist texts remained. Civil rights groups sued over these bans, arguing that they stripped students of access to essential history. The stakes for academic freedom were no longer abstract.\
Transparency and data around universities and public programs were also curtailed. The administration removed a public tracker of federal spending and climate and environmental justice webpages, prompting lawsuits from advocacy groups seeking to restore statutory transparency tools. These deletions made it harder for universities, researchers, and communities to see how money and environmental burdens were distributed. Taken together, funding freezes, visa threats, book bans, and data removals signaled that higher education and knowledge production would be tolerated only when aligned with the regime\'92s narratives.\
Economic policy and regulatory structure moved further toward crony capitalism and agency capture. The week opened with sweeping tariffs\'97universal and country\uc0\u8209 specific\'97announced and then partially paused in rapid succession. The administration ended the de\u8209 minimis rule for low\u8209 value Chinese imports, imposed a 21 percent tariff on Mexican tomatoes, and triggered capital flight and market turmoil. China retaliated by halting exports of key rare earths and Boeing aircraft purchases, exposing U.S. dependence on foreign inputs and jobs. California sued, arguing that the president was using emergency trade powers to bypass Congress, but in the meantime businesses and workers bore the cost of policy whiplash.\
Inside the regulatory state, key watchdogs were hollowed out or redirected. Executive orders rolled back National Environmental Policy Act procedures, making it easier to push through major projects without full review. The Justice Department terminated an environmental justice settlement in Lowndes County, Alabama, leaving a poor, majority\uc0\u8209 Black community without federal oversight of sewage and health protections. Crypto enforcement was effectively shut down as the administration deregulated the sector and disbanded a DOJ task force, even as Trump family investments in cryptocurrency expanded. At the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, plans were set in motion to fire nearly 90 percent of staff after a court allowed downsizing, threatening the agency\'92s capacity to police abusive financial practices. Later judicial intervention would pause some of these moves, but the intent was clear.\
Direct financial entanglement between policy and private gain became more visible. Trump Media and Technology Group launched investment accounts designed to profit from the president\'92s policy agenda, including tariff decisions, turning public choices into a revenue stream for his company. The administration urged the SEC to investigate a hedge fund\'92s short position in Trump Media stock, risking politicization of securities oversight. Donors with tax problems retired the campaign debt of Billy Long shortly after his nomination to lead the IRS, raising questions about whether regulatory appointments were being shaped by those seeking favorable treatment. Proposed cuts to State Department and health budgets, the cancellation of labor rights grants, and the planned termination of Head Start funding all shifted resources away from public goods and toward a landscape where concentrated private power faced fewer constraints. Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell\'92s refusal to cut interest rates despite presidential pressure, and court blocks on some CFPB layoffs, showed that some guardrails still held. They did so against a rising tide.\
Beneath these headline policies, the civil service and security apparatus were reshaped to serve presidential directives more directly. A new at\uc0\u8209 will category was created for roughly 50,000 federal workers, who could now be fired for vague offenses like \'93subversion of presidential directives.\'94 This change did not abolish agencies. It altered the incentives of those who staffed them, making career officials think twice before slowing or questioning orders. Across DHS and other departments, polygraph tests were deployed to hunt for leakers, reinforcing a climate of internal surveillance that discouraged whistleblowing and honest dissent.\
Security tools were used against critics and truth\uc0\u8209 tellers. The administration stripped security clearances from former officials Christopher Krebs and Miles Taylor, both public critics of the president, and ordered investigations into them. At the Justice Department, the lawyer who had admitted in court that \'c1brego\'92s deportation was wrongful was fired, sending a message that candor about government error could end a career. The Department of Government Efficiency, led by Elon Musk, attempted to embed staff inside a justice\u8209 reform nonprofit that received federal funds, blurring the line between oversight and political monitoring of civil society. On the southern border, the president authorized the U.S. military to control federal land for immigration enforcement and detention, further militarizing a space where migrants and border communities already faced heightened coercive power. Routine rulemakings and data collections continued in the background, but the structure around them was being rewired to favor loyalty over neutral administration.\
Information, media, and public memory were managed with increasing boldness. The White House blocked Associated Press journalists from Oval Office access despite a court order, directly defying judicial protection of press freedom. The president called for CBS to lose its broadcasting license and urged the FCC to punish the network over critical reporting. Official communications attacked NPR and PBS as radical propaganda and grifts, framing public broadcasters as illegitimate. Behind the scenes, allies and regulators were used to pressure CNN and other outlets, with reports of offers to avoid lawsuits in exchange for favorable coverage.\
At the same time, transparency infrastructure was dismantled. The administration removed a congressionally mandated federal spending tracker and key climate and environmental justice webpages, prompting lawsuits from groups like Protect Democracy and the Center for Biological Diversity. These sites had allowed the public and Congress to see where money flowed and where pollution and climate risks fell. Their removal did not just hide data. It narrowed the range of questions that could be asked and answered about government choices. The State Department closed its Counter Foreign Information Manipulation and Interference office, eliminating the last dedicated hub for tracking foreign disinformation campaigns even as domestic disinformation grew.\
Official narratives were rewritten at the source. Covid.gov, once a public health portal, was replaced with a site promoting the lab\uc0\u8209 leak theory and attacking scientific institutions, turning a government resource into a vehicle for a contested origin story and institutional distrust. The White House social media team posted an edited New York Times front page about \'c1brego\'92s case, removing the word \'93wrongly\'94 and adding \'93who is never coming back,\'94 directly contradicting the Supreme Court\'92s ruling. Book bans and content restrictions in Pentagon schools and a Texas school district removed works on slavery, civil rights, and the Holocaust, and even banned the Virginia state flag and seal from an online platform over nudity concerns. Civil rights lawsuits challenged these moves, but the cumulative effect was clear. The state was curating what citizens could see, study, and remember, while closing the office meant to guard against foreign manipulation of the same information space.\
Across these developments, the moral floor of governance sagged further. Character and restraint were strained by retaliatory funding cuts to universities, the targeting of critics through clearances and deportation tools, and the willingness to defy unanimous court orders. Ethics blurred as tariffs, deregulation, and agency decisions aligned with insider financial stakes. Truthfulness eroded under misrepresentations of Supreme Court rulings, economic consequences, and public health science. Good faith in democratic rules weakened as immigration and voting systems were used to narrow who counted, and stewardship suffered as oversight mechanisms, archives, and civic education were dismantled or sanitized. Courts, states, universities, and civil society did respond\'97with lawsuits, refusals, and some successful injunctions\'97but their actions were largely reactive, arriving after the executive had already moved.\
No single case or order defined Week 13. Its significance lay in the way familiar tools were used with greater confidence and less hesitation. Deportation powers became levers for offshoring people beyond the reach of law. Civil rights statutes were left on the books but emptied of their most effective remedies. Voting remained formally open, yet the path to the ballot grew narrower and more contingent on paperwork and status. Agencies continued to issue notices and collect data, even as their missions were bent toward donor and regime interests. Reporters still published, but under threat of license loss, access denial, and regulatory reprisal.\
The week\'92s modest movement on the Democracy Clock captured this pattern of deepening erosion without open rupture. Institutions still stood. Elections were still scheduled. Courts still issued orders, some of which bit. Yet using those institutions now required more persistence and carried greater risk, especially for those without wealth, status, or political protection. The distance between formal rights and lived security widened by another small but measurable step.\
}