{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 .SFNS-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red14\green14\blue14;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c6700\c6700\c6700;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf2 A democracy is not kept alive by its aspirations alone. It survives because its institutions work\'97quietly, reliably, and in ways people can trust. When agencies carry out the law competently, when public money is managed transparently, when regulatory decisions are made on the basis of evidence rather than impulse, a democracy becomes more than an ideal. It becomes a system that improves lives in ways people can feel. When institutions falter, the damage is immediate. Rules shift without warning. Businesses cannot plan. Communities lose protections they once took for granted. And the people who rely on government for fairness, stability, or basic services begin to treat it as something distant, arbitrary, and hostile.\
\
Function is not glamorous. It rarely appears in campaign speeches or celebratory moments. Yet it is the hinge on which every other democratic promise depends. A republic may endure turbulence, disagreement, and even profound ideological conflict. It cannot endure a government whose core machinery no longer does its job, or does it only for a favored few. Over the past year, Americans have seen a different kind of dysfunction emerge\'97not only from neglect or underfunding, but from a governing style that treats institutions as props, rewrites major policies by executive order alone, and uses \'93efficiency\'94 as a justification for concentrating control. These choices have not been neutral. They have reshaped how the state works, and for whom.\
\
In the first days of the current term, a flood of executive orders showed how quickly the basic direction of government could be reversed. With a single signature, the United States again began the process of departing the Paris climate agreement, pulling back from a global framework designed to coordinate long-term environmental policy. On the same day, the president declared a national energy emergency to \'93unleash\'94 fossil fuel production, fast-tracking drilling and export projects that would normally face careful review. Within weeks, additional orders expanded tree-cutting across millions of acres of public land and moved to \'93unleash\'94 deep-sea mining for critical minerals. Each action had its own justification. Taken together, they reveal something larger: critical functions of environmental protection and long-range planning were pushed aside in favor of short-term extraction, with little regard for the agencies tasked with weighing competing public interests.\
\
The same pattern appeared in economic and trade policy. An order to create a sovereign wealth fund\'97loosely defined, operating outside the Federal Reserve and the Treasury\'97was announced as a way to let the country \'93invest like a business.\'94 Another directive established a strategic bitcoin reserve funded by seized digital assets, tying public finances to an exceptionally volatile market. Trade policy, once the product of negotiated agreements and legislative oversight, lurched between broad new \'93reciprocal\'94 tariffs on all imports and temporary exemptions for favored partners. Closing a customs loophole with one hand, pausing tariffs for politically important goods with the other, the administration treated the machinery of trade like a series of switches to be flipped rather than a system to be steered. For families and firms trying to plan, the message was simple: the rules could change at any moment, not through deliberation, but through decree.\
\
Institutional function also depends on the independence of those charged with implementing the law. Here, too, the past year brought sharp shifts. An executive order directed independent regulatory agencies\'97long structured by Congress to operate at some distance from the White House\'97to report their priorities and budgets through the president\'92s office. Another instructed agency heads to review all regulations in concert with a newly empowered \'93department of government efficiency\'94 led by a private-sector ally, consolidating review authority in a small circle close to the president. In theory, coordination and efficiency are reasonable goals. In practice, these orders narrowed the space for regulators to balance competing interests, insulated favored industries from scrutiny, and blurred the line between public judgment and private influence. When agencies that protect consumers, workers, markets, and the environment become answerable first to political loyalty, their capacity to serve the whole public diminishes.\
\
Function requires not only independence, but integrity. A single order directed the Justice Department to halt prosecutions under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, effectively pausing enforcement of a central anti-bribery law until new guidance could be written. The move was framed as a way to help American businesses compete abroad. Yet it also signaled that the government was willing to tolerate bribery of foreign officials so long as the benefits flowed to domestic firms. Anti-corruption enforcement is one of the quiet pillars of a functional democracy. It assures citizens that contracts are awarded on merit, not influence; that public money is not a private advantage; and that companies compete on a level field. When such protections are relaxed for reasons unrelated to law or evidence, the institutions tasked with holding the powerful to account are weakened, and corruption finds more room to grow.\
\
The drive to \'93streamline\'94 government also altered how money flows through the system. A new order expanded a centralized payment system for contracts, grants, and loans, placing much of the federal government\'92s spending infrastructure under the supervision of the same \'93efficiency\'94 office guiding regulatory review. On paper, consolidating payments can reduce waste and improve transparency. In practice, when combined with efforts to dismantle departments\'97such as the order to begin tearing down the Department of Education without full congressional consent\'97it risks turning essential public functions into targets for cost-cutting and privatization, rather than areas for thoughtful reform. A school system that depends on stable federal support, clear rules, and consistent enforcement cannot function well when its safeguards are treated as optional.\
\
All of these examples point toward a single truth: function is an ethical question as much as a technical one. The government\'92s machinery must be built and run in a way that serves the whole public, not simply the priorities of the moment. In the language of democratic repair, this is the Promise of effective self-government and the Imperative of institutions that can carry out the law fairly, competently, and predictably. When a state abandons long-range commitments in favor of quick wins, or when it subordinates independent judgment to political directives, it trades stability for spectacle. The cost is paid not only in policy outcomes, but in public trust.\
\
The path forward begins with drawing a clearer line between legitimate executive direction and institutional capture. The president will always have, and should have, the authority to set policy priorities. But agencies charged with environmental protection, labor standards, financial regulation, and civil rights enforcement need sufficient independence and resources to carry out their mandates. That means protecting their budgets from retaliatory cuts, ensuring that leaders are chosen for competence and commitment to the law, and preserving space for expertise to shape decisions. It also means revisiting emergency authorities and structural workarounds that allow major shifts in policy\'97whether in energy, trade, or education\'97to occur without meaningful legislative participation or public scrutiny.\
\
Reform must also strengthen the systems that keep government running day to day. Modern data infrastructure, transparent payment mechanisms, and clear procurement rules can make agencies more responsive without centralizing every decision in the hands of a few. Oversight bodies\'97inspectors general, auditors, congressional committees\'97should have the access and independence they need to monitor how executive orders are implemented and to flag when \'93efficiency\'94 becomes a cover for favoritism. Public-facing tools, including open data and user-friendly reporting, can help citizens and journalists see how resources are allocated and whether promises match performance. Function is not simply the absence of crisis; it is the presence of predictable, accountable, and understandable systems.\
\
Placed within the arc of the Five Phases of repair, strengthening function is the step that turns democratic ideals into daily experience. Citizens will judge any new settlement not only by what it promises, but by what it delivers: Are schools supported? Are workplaces safe? Are communities protected from environmental harm? Are businesses governed by fair and transparent rules? Institutions that work\'97courts that resolve disputes in a timely way, agencies that keep their word, programs that do what they claim\'97rebuild trust in ways no speech can match. When government demonstrates competence, it earns the right to ask for patience and participation.\
\
For the reader, these questions may feel technical, steeped in the language of orders, regulations, and agency design. Their consequences, however, are close to home. When environmental protections are rolled back overnight, communities face new risks to air and water. When trade rules swing from one extreme to another, jobs and prices follow. When anti-corruption enforcement is put on hold, honest businesses are undercut by those willing to buy advantage. When a department responsible for education is weakened, families see the effects in schools that lack support and students who fall through the cracks. Function is the invisible layer beneath every democratic right and every public service.\
\
The elections ahead offer an opportunity to demand more from the institutions that act in the public\'92s name. Voters can ask candidates whether they support independent regulators, stable long-term planning, and strong anti-corruption enforcement\'97or whether they view government as something to be bent to their will. They can insist that promises of \'93efficiency\'94 be matched by protections for fairness, transparency, and public purpose. They can look for leaders who understand that governing is not performance, but stewardship: the patient work of keeping complex systems aligned with the values of a self-governing people.\
\
A democracy is only as strong as the institutions that carry it. When they function, the country feels stable, predictable, and fair. When they are treated as tools for short-term advantage, everything else begins to shake. Rebuilding function is not an optional reform reserved for experts; it is the foundation on which every other repair depends. For the republic to keep its promises, its institutions must do their work\'97quietly, consistently, and in the service of the people alone.}