{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0\stshfdbch0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman{\*\falt Palatino};}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\stylesheet {\s0 Normal;}}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
{\info
{\author }
{\creatim\yr2025\mo11\dy19\hr19\min18\sec32\timesinceref785236712}
{\revtim\yr2025\mo11\dy20\hr5\min52\sec39\timesinceref785274759}}\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26 \cf0 The second Trump presidency opened not with a single rupture but with a flood. In Week 1, the country watched a familiar figure return to the Capitol steps, yet the program he set in motion was not a replay of his first term. It was a concentrated version of it. Orders, proclamations, memos, firings, and threats poured out in such volume that no one event could stand alone. Immigration, civil rights, environmental rules, global health, the civil service, and the justice system were all touched in the first five days. The pattern was clear: use the tools of lawful authority to push against the limits of law itself, and do it fast enough that resistance would struggle to keep pace. This was the week when the new governing arc declared itself.\
\
On the Democracy Clock, the public time at the close of the prior term stood at 7:31 p.m. It remained there at the end of Week 1. The hands did not move, but only because they had already leapt forward in the sealed recalibration that marked the handover of power. The baseline for Trump\'92s second term was set with his inauguration and the first wave of orders; this week\'92s reading captures that new starting point. The absence of further movement does not mean nothing changed. It means that the system had already absorbed a shock large enough to redefine \'93normal,\'94 and the torrent of actions in these first days fit within that newly darkened frame. Power did not yet need to push further toward midnight, because it had already claimed a wide field.\
\
The most visible development was the remaking of immigration policy by decree. On Day One and the days that followed, Trump declared a national emergency at the southern border, even as crossings were reported at a five\uc0\u8209 year low. He ordered the military into a role that blurred defense and domestic policing, directed Customs and Border Protection to detain migrants without release, and reintroduced expedited deportations for anyone unable to prove two years\'92 residence. The CBP One app, which had given hundreds of thousands of asylum seekers a lawful path to appointments, was abruptly shut down; 30,000 scheduled meetings vanished overnight. Legal pathways for Cubans, Haitians, Nicaraguans, and Venezuelans with sponsors were ended. Asylum itself was suspended at the southern border, and the \'93remain in Mexico\'94 program was revived, forcing people to wait in some of the most dangerous cities in the hemisphere. In power terms, the executive branch seized near\u8209 total control over who could approach the law, and who would be held outside it.\
\
These moves did more than harden policy. They redefined migrants as a security threat and an \'93invasion,\'94 justifying the use of emergency powers and military deployment. The Justice Department ordered prosecutors to target state and local officials who resisted this crackdown, especially in sanctuary jurisdictions, and a memo threatened legal action against cities that limited cooperation with ICE. Arrests were authorized in churches, schools, and hospitals, spaces once treated as off\uc0\u8209 limits. Legal service providers were told to stop assisting immigrants in court. The effect was structural. Local governments and civil society were pushed to the margins, while federal enforcement agencies were bound more tightly to the president\'92s political narrative. Immigrants lost not only rights on paper but access to the lawyers, officials, and physical spaces that might have defended those rights.\
\
At the same time, the administration moved to change who counts as American in the first place. Trump signed an order titled \'93Protecting the Meaning and Value of American Citizenship,\'94 asserting that children born in the United States to many non\uc0\u8209 citizen parents would no longer receive birthright citizenship. This was a direct challenge to the Fourteenth Amendment and more than a symbolic gesture. It instructed agencies to treat a class of U.S.\u8209 born children as outsiders, and it did so by executive fiat rather than constitutional amendment. Lawsuits came quickly. California and a coalition of states sued, calling the order a \'93flagrant violation\'94 of the Constitution. Federal judges in Washington and Massachusetts issued temporary restraining orders, and one described the move as \'93blatantly unconstitutional.\'94 For a moment, the courts held the line. Yet the attempt itself mattered. It signaled that the presidency would test even the most settled guarantees, and that citizenship could be treated as a policy lever rather than a shared foundation.\
\
The justice system, already strained by years of investigation into the January 6 attack, was pulled into a new role. On his first day, Trump issued full and unconditional pardons to roughly 1,500 people convicted in connection with the Capitol insurrection, including those who assaulted police and those convicted of seditious conspiracy. He commuted other sentences and directed the Justice Department to dismiss all remaining January 6 cases. Later in the week he ordered the department to halt ongoing prosecutions, and in interviews he described the violence against officers as \'93very minor incidents.\'94 Police unions and chiefs\'92 associations condemned the clemency as a betrayal of law enforcement. Federal judges, including Beryl Howell and Tanya Chutkan, warned that the pardons could not erase the facts of the day or the damage done to the tradition of peaceful transfer. Yet the legal reality had changed. People who had attacked the seat of government now walked free, some openly discussing runs for office, and the president who had incited them was now their patron.\
\
The pardons did not stop with January 6. Trump granted clemency to anti\uc0\u8209 abortion activists convicted under the Freedom of Access to Clinic Entrances Act, freeing all those imprisoned under a law meant to protect patients and staff from threats and blockades. He pardoned Ross Ulbricht, the founder of the Silk Road drug marketplace, after lobbying from libertarian allies. He issued full pardons to two D.C. police officers involved in the death of Karon Hylton\u8209 Brown. Each act could be defended as mercy in isolation. Taken together, they formed a pattern. Violence aligned with the president\'92s base, whether against the state, clinics, or individuals, was forgiven; violence or protest aligned with his critics was not. Law became a tool to reward loyalty and rewrite the moral ledger of recent history. The moral floor of restraint and good faith sagged under the weight of this selective absolution.\
\
Inside the Justice Department, the shift was even starker. Trump signed orders directing the attorney general to investigate the \'93weaponization\'94 of the federal government under Biden, and to probe alleged censorship of conservative speech. He froze all civil rights cases, instructing the new head of the civil rights division to stop filing complaints and legal documents. Agreements for police reform in departments with documented misconduct were halted. Immigration court leadership was fired. Legal aid for immigrants was curtailed. At the same time, the president delegated broad responsibility for implementing his executive orders to the incoming attorney general, signaling that the department would be both the spear and the shield for his agenda. The institution charged with impartial enforcement of law was being recast as an arm of political will. This was not yet a full capture, but it was a clear attempt to turn the nation\'92s main law\uc0\u8209 enforcement body into a partisan instrument.\
\
Oversight mechanisms beyond the courts were also stripped back. On January 24, Trump fired the inspectors general of at least a dozen major federal agencies in what observers described as a purge. The law requires notice to Congress before such removals; reports suggested that requirement was ignored. Inspectors general are the internal auditors of the federal system, empowered to investigate waste, fraud, and abuse. Removing them en masse did not change any statute, but it hollowed out the practical capacity to enforce those statutes. In the same week, the administration shut down all federal offices dedicated to diversity, equity, and inclusion, placed their staff on leave, and began planning layoffs. Ethics commissions and civil rights units were not formally abolished, but their teeth were pulled. The moral floor of ethics and stewardship\'97care for institutions and public resources\'97was breached in ways that will be hard to repair.\
\
The civil service, long a buffer between political whims and public administration, came under direct attack. Trump reinstated and expanded a version of Schedule F, creating a new category of \'93policy\uc0\u8209 influencing\'94 federal employees who could be dismissed at will. Estimates suggested tens of thousands of career officials could be swept into this category. The National Treasury Employees Union sued, arguing that the move revived a spoils system Congress had rejected more than a century earlier. At the National Security Council, about 160 career staff were sidelined in a single day. The head of the Transportation Security Administration and the members of the Aviation Security Advisory Committee were fired. Admiral Linda Fagan, the first woman to lead a branch of the armed forces, was removed as Coast Guard commandant, with her focus on diversity cited as a reason. These actions did not merely replace one set of leaders with another. They sent a message that independence, expertise, and even basic demographic representation were subordinate to ideological loyalty.\
\
Emergency powers, already broad in American law, were normalized as routine tools of governance. Trump declared a national energy emergency to fast\uc0\u8209 track fossil fuel projects, roll back climate regulations, and lift pauses on liquefied natural gas exports. He declared a national emergency at the southern border, not only to justify wall construction without Congress but also to open the door to invoking the Insurrection Act. The Defense Department announced the deployment of 1,500 additional active\u8209 duty troops to the border, joining thousands already there, and orders were issued to revise the military\'92s role in \'93protecting territorial integrity.\'94 In California, a separate order directed federal agencies to override state water policies in the name of emergency relief, even as the president threatened to withhold wildfire aid unless the state adopted voter ID laws and changed its water rules. FEMA itself was placed under review by a new council, while Trump repeatedly floated the idea of abolishing the agency and shifting disaster response to the states. Emergency language, once reserved for rare crises, became the default justification for sweeping changes in energy, immigration, and disaster policy.\
\
Public health and science were pulled into this vortex. On January 21, the administration ordered a communications blackout for federal health agencies, pausing all external advisories, reports, and social media updates. The Department of Health and Human Services canceled scientific meetings and froze new grants and contracts. Travel for health agency staff was largely banned, and funding for foreign health projects was halted. No acting head was named for the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. A government website that had helped women find health care and understand their rights was taken down. These steps did not repeal any public health law, but they strangled the flow of information and resources that make those laws meaningful. In the moral vocabulary of the week, truthfulness and stewardship were both compromised. Data and expertise were treated as threats to be managed, not tools to protect the public.\
\
Abroad, the United States stepped back from cooperative roles and narrowed its circle of favored partners. Trump signed orders to withdraw again from the Paris climate agreement and to pull out of the World Health Organization, moves that would take time to complete but sent an immediate signal. A separate order paused nearly all foreign development assistance for ninety days, and an internal memo from Secretary of State Marco Rubio went further, halting virtually all foreign aid except military assistance to Israel and Egypt. Plans were announced for 25% tariffs on imports from Canada and Mexico, framed as a tool against drug trafficking but likely to disrupt trade with the country\'92s two largest partners. Another order designated the Yemeni group Ansar Allah as a foreign terrorist organization, expanding the scope for sanctions and military action. These choices concentrated foreign policy in the hands of the executive and a small set of allies, while weakening multilateral health, climate, and development efforts that had diffused power outward.\
\
Inside the economy, the line between public office and private gain blurred. Just before and during the inauguration, Trump and his wife launched cryptocurrencies bearing their names, with market capitalizations in the billions. Analysts noted that buying these \'93memecoins\'94 could enrich the president without any formal transaction, creating a channel for domestic and foreign actors to transfer value outside campaign finance rules. Major exchanges listed the coins even as they faced their own enforcement actions, apparently betting that a friendly administration would ease regulatory pressure. At the same time, the Trump Organization quietly removed prior restrictions on foreign deals from its ethics statement, and Jared Kushner partnered with the company on a Saudi\uc0\u8209 backed Trump Tower project in Belgrade. His private equity firm had already secured $2 billion from the Saudi sovereign wealth fund despite internal objections. In parallel, an investigation found that Trump\'92s online store had exploded in size, with more than 1,700 products on offer and millions in revenue tied directly to his return to office. These were not isolated conflicts of interest. They were a system in which the presidency itself became a platform for monetization.\
\
The administration\'92s domestic economic choices reflected a similar tilt. An executive order repealed protections dating back to 1965 that had barred federal contractors from discriminating in hiring, and other orders ended DEI programs across government and rebranded them as \'93illegal discrimination.\'94 Another revoked the Equal Employment Opportunity framework for contractors. Environmental rules were rolled back: offshore wind leasing was halted, auto emissions standards were weakened, and National Environmental Policy Act reviews were curtailed to speed fossil fuel projects. Funding for infrastructure and clean energy projects under the Inflation Reduction Act and the Bipartisan Infrastructure Act was suspended. Big oil\'92s $445 million in spending to influence Trump and Congress during the election cycle loomed in the background. The beneficiaries of these moves were clear: fossil fuel companies, favored contractors, and politically aligned firms. Workers, communities in polluted regions, and future generations bore the risk.\
\
Information and memory, always contested terrain in a polarized society, became explicit targets. Trump\'92s new FCC chair reinstated campaign complaints against ABC, NBC, and CBS, opening the door to regulatory pressure on networks accused of bias. The president publicly called for MSNBC to lose its broadcasting license. At the same time, he signed an order to \'93restore freedom of speech and end federal censorship,\'94 directing investigations into past government contacts with platforms. The tension between these moves was not resolved. Instead, it signaled that speech aligned with the administration would be defended, while critical outlets would face scrutiny. In the realm of history, Trump ordered the Gulf of Mexico renamed the Gulf of America and Denali reverted to Mount McKinley, and he created a process to review the officials who oversee geographic names. These symbolic acts, coupled with the declassification of assassination records, showed two sides of the same impulse. Curate the past to elevate certain narratives, and release selected secrets to claim the mantle of transparency on his own terms.\
\
Not every actor moved in the same direction. Courts blocked the birthright citizenship order, at least temporarily. State attorneys general sued. Labor unions authorized strikes and organized Amazon workers prepared for a union vote. California passed a $2.5 billion wildfire relief package and looked to federal aid even as the president threatened to condition that aid on voter ID laws that would end mail\uc0\u8209 in voting. Some Republican lawmakers, like Dan Newhouse, and police unions spoke out against the January 6 pardons. Senators Collins and Murkowski opposed Pete Hegseth\'92s nomination to lead the Pentagon, citing his record and extremist views. A woman once known as \'93Maga Granny\'94 rejected her own pardon on principle. These acts did not reverse the week\'92s structural changes, but they showed that institutional and civic resistance still existed, even as the cost of exercising it rose.\
\
Looking ahead from Week 1, several processes were already in motion. The lawsuits over birthright citizenship and the refugee and asylum orders would demand decisions from courts in the weeks to come. The Federal Emergency Management Agency Review Council was tasked with reporting within 180 days, and its recommendations could reshape disaster response. The new January 6 subcommittee in the House was being formed, with a mandate broad enough to rewrite the public record of the insurrection. The pause on foreign aid and the withdrawal from WHO and Paris set clocks ticking in international law. None of these were speculative. They were scheduled, announced, and underway, each carrying its own risk for how power would be used or checked.\
\
By the end of Week 1, the Democracy Clock still read 7:31 p.m., but the country it measured was not the same as it had been a week earlier. The absence of movement on the dial reflects not calm but the fact that the baseline had already shifted sharply with the inauguration and its immediate aftermath. In these first days, the new administration showed how it would govern: by flooding the zone with executive action, by bending law toward loyalty, by treating emergency as a standing condition, and by turning public office into a channel for private and factional gain. The moral floor\'97character, ethics, restraint, truthfulness, good faith, stewardship\'97was not shattered in a single blow, but it cracked in many places at once. Some beams still held: courts that enforced the Fourteenth Amendment, officials who spoke against impunity, citizens who organized. Yet the load upon them increased. This week matters in the larger arc of the term because it set the template. What followed would not be a sudden descent but a test of how long institutions and people could bear that weight before the hour grew later still. The official time at the close of the period remains 7:31 p.m. The light has not gone out, but the walls of the room have moved inward.}