{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26 \cf0 In Week 22, the story is not of a single break but of many lines tightening at once. The presidency pressed deeper into spaces once shared with courts, Congress, states, and an independent press, while citizens filled streets to say they would not be ruled as subjects. Immigration raids, military deployments, and regulatory favors moved in concert with symbolic erasures and legal setbacks for vulnerable groups. Power became more open about who it served and whom it meant to frighten. The Democracy Clock barely moved in public terms, but the pattern beneath that stillness was one of consolidation, not rest.\
\
At the close of the prior period, the Democracy Clock stood at 7:52 p.m. It ends Week 22 at the same visible time, with an internal shift of just 0.2 minutes toward midnight. That small change reflects a balance between hardening authoritarian traits and pockets of institutional resistance that still held. Courts blocked some of the administration\'92s most brazen moves, Congress asserted itself on war powers and corruption, and millions marched under the banner \'93No Kings.\'94 Yet the week\'92s net effect was to deepen the sense that law, force, and information are being bent toward regime preservation rather than public defense. The clock held its face, but the gears inside turned.\
\
The most visible clash of visions came in the streets. On June 14, more than five million people joined over 2,000 \'93No Kings\'94 protests across the country, timed to the 250th anniversary of the Continental Army and to the president\'92s 79th birthday. They carried American flags, invoked the Revolution, and insisted that the promise of self-rule still bound the living. In Washington, the White House staged a $40 million military parade, complete with armored vehicles, corporate sponsors, and empty bleachers. The contrast was stark. On one side, a leader borrowing the aesthetics of strongmen abroad; on the other, citizens claiming the older American tradition that armies exist to defend liberty, not to adorn a single man. The poor turnout for the parade did not erase its meaning. It showed how public funds and uniforms could be drawn into a project of personal glorification even as much of the country turned away.\
\
The parade was not an isolated flourish. It sat atop a broader militarization of domestic politics. In Los Angeles, protests against mass immigration raids were met with National Guard troops and hundreds of Marines deployed without the governor\'92s consent. Teargas, foam bullets, curfews, and felony charges followed, including cases that civil rights advocates said criminalized speech rather than violence. In Texas, the governor preemptively called out the Guard for \'93No Kings\'94 demonstrations, while in Florida the governor told drivers they could legally run over protesters if they felt threatened. These choices did more than clear streets. They taught a lesson about who may assemble and at what cost. When dissent is framed as disorder or threat, the line between policing and suppression blurs. The right to protest becomes something granted, not guaranteed.\
\
The courts were pulled into this struggle over force. A federal judge in California ruled that control of Guard units and Marines in Los Angeles must return to Governor Gavin Newsom, finding the federal deployment unlawful. Almost at once, an appeals panel of the Ninth Circuit stayed that order, and later in the week another appellate ruling allowed the president to retain control of California\'92s Guard. Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth openly mused about ignoring adverse rulings. The legal back-and-forth mattered less for its technicalities than for what it signaled: that emergency powers and military tools, once exceptional, were becoming routine instruments of domestic governance. The trait the Clock tracks as \'93emergency powers normalized and permanent\'94 edged upward because the threshold for federalizing troops over state objection had been crossed and then affirmed.\
\
Immigration enforcement was the sharpest edge of this new order. Since the start of the term, ICE had been ordered to reach 3,000 arrests a day, with an 807% increase in detentions of people with no criminal record. In Week 22, that machinery was turned more explicitly toward political targets. Raids swept through Los Angeles swap meets, Home Depot parking lots, garment factories, Latino parishes, and schools. Agents detained U.S. citizens alongside undocumented workers, barred lawyers and members of Congress from seeing detainees, and moved people across state lines without notice to families or counsel. In Florida\'92s Lake Worth Beach, grocery stores, churches, and schools became hunting grounds, leaving a community hollowed out by deportations and self-deport orders. The law on paper had not changed as much as its aim. Enforcement no longer pretended to be neutral; it was directed at \'93Democrat Power Centers\'94 and immigrant communities cast as a political threat.\
\
The president\'92s own words made that targeting plain. On social media he ordered ICE to focus on mass deportations in Los Angeles, Chicago, New York, and other Democratic-run cities, claiming these places \'93harbor illegal aliens\'94 who bolster the opposing party\'92s vote. A senior ICE official briefly paused raids in agriculture and hospitality after protests and business complaints, only for DHS to reverse course within days under pressure from hardliners. At the same time, Trump and his agriculture secretary announced that migrants in those same industries would be exempted from deportation to protect the labor supply. The message was clear. Immigration law would fall hardest where it served political and symbolic ends, and it would bend where donors and economic allies needed it eased. Citizenship and safety were being stratified by wealth, geography, and perceived loyalty.\
\
Individual cases showed how far law had been turned into a weapon. Mahmoud Khalil, a Palestinian activist and green-card holder, remained in detention for months without charge, ostensibly over alleged misstatements on his application, even after a court rejected the administration\'92s claim that he was a foreign policy threat. A journalist, Mario Guevara, was arrested while covering a protest in Georgia and then handed to ICE despite a valid work permit, raising the specter of immigration law used to silence a critical reporter. In New York, city comptroller and mayoral candidate Brad Lander was seized by ICE and FBI agents at an immigration court as he tried to accompany a Spanish-speaking immigrant whose case had been dismissed. He was accused of assaulting officers, though video suggested the opposite, and released without charges after hours in custody. DHS repeated the pattern days later, and the agency issued new guidance requiring members of Congress to give 72 hours\'92 notice before visiting detention centers, in defiance of a statute that guaranteed unannounced oversight. Law, in these episodes, did not act as a limit on power. It acted as a weapon in its hands.\
\
The federal government\'92s relationship with states and cities frayed further. Executive orders called for defunding sanctuary jurisdictions and prosecuting local officials deemed obstructive. ICE planned to deploy SWAT-style teams to Democratic-led cities in anticipation of protests. The president threatened to withhold $40 billion in wildfire aid from California over the governor\'92s resistance to troop deployments. In Michigan, he invoked a national energy emergency to force two coal plants to remain open despite state climate law and local opposition, a move expected to cost ratepayers hundreds of millions of dollars. These actions did not merely reflect policy differences. They used federal levers\'97troops, money, and regulatory waivers\'97to punish disfavored regions and to signal that allegiance to the president, not to shared law, would determine who received protection and who faced coercion.\
\
At the same time, the administration moved to reshape who could enter or remain in the country at all. On the day of the second inauguration, an executive order attempted to cancel birthright citizenship for children of undocumented parents, striking at the heart of the Fourteenth Amendment. The White House considered adding 36 countries, including 25 in Africa, to an expanded travel ban. The State Department announced that foreign students and scholars seeking visas would have to unlock their social media accounts for review, with diplomats instructed to screen for \'93hostility\'94 to U.S. culture and for certain political views. Asylum appointments for 30,000 people at the southern border were summarily canceled, stranding families who had followed the rules and leaving shelters emptying out not because need had vanished but because the door had been slammed. Alongside these closures, Commerce Secretary Howard Lutnick unveiled a waitlist for a $5 million \'93Trump Card\'94 that would buy permanent residency. The pattern was unmistakable. Legal status was being turned into a filter for ideology and wealth, and the old promise that the law applied equally to all who sought refuge was being hollowed out.\
\
Courts did not stand entirely aside. A federal judge ordered the administration to restore legal services for families separated under the earlier \'93zero tolerance\'94 policy, finding a breach of settlement obligations. Another judge ruled that the mass termination of NIH grants, many tied to DEI and LGBTQ research, was \'93void and illegal,\'94 citing discrimination and ordering funds restored. A separate ruling blocked the EPA\'92s cancellation of $600 million in environmental justice grants. Judges halted mass firings in the Education Department\'92s Office for Civil Rights and stopped the administration from tying transportation grants to immigration enforcement cooperation. A federal court allowed Harvard to continue admitting international students despite a plan to strip it from the student visa program, and another ordered Mahmoud Khalil released on bail, recognizing his detention as punitive. These decisions did not reverse the week\'92s drift, but they showed that parts of the judiciary still recognized the difference between policy and punishment.\
\
Yet the Supreme Court\'92s hand pushed in the other direction. In United States v. Skrmetti, the Court upheld Tennessee\'92s ban on gender-affirming care for minors, rejecting the argument that it was sex-based discrimination and signaling a narrower view of equal protection. In another case, the Court allowed fossil fuel companies and Republican-led states to challenge California\'92s long-standing waiver to set stricter vehicle emission standards, opening a new front against state climate policy. Together, these rulings narrowed the rights of transgender youth and weakened a key tool states had used to fight pollution. They also reinforced a structural tilt: when the executive or allied states sought to restrict vulnerable groups or roll back environmental protections, the Court was more likely to open doors than to close them.\
\
Information itself became a contested field. At the Pentagon, a rapid response team under Secretary Hegseth used official accounts to attack reporters and amplify his personal agenda, including the Los Angeles troop deployments. At Voice of America and its parent agency, the administration announced the termination of 639 employees, part of a wave that would eliminate 1,400 positions and nearly dismantle a broadcaster that once reached 360 million people. Layoff notices went out with terminations expected by September. The official justification was bias and dysfunction. The practical effect was to starve an independent source of news and to clear space for more state-aligned or partisan voices to define America abroad. The trait the Clock tracks as \'93independent media starved while state-aligned outlets thrive\'94 jumped sharply because this was not a budget trim; it was an institutional gutting.\
\
The same pattern appeared in public health and science. At the CDC, the official overseeing Covid and RSV hospitalization data resigned, saying she no longer trusted that evidence would guide vaccine policy. Health Secretary Robert F. Kennedy Jr. had already fired the entire independent vaccine advisory panel and replaced it with skeptics, while removing recommendations for Covid shots for healthy children and pregnant women. The agency retracted $11.4 billion in Covid funding for surveillance and response, fired officials leading the bird flu effort, and sharply reduced testing of exposed people. The government canceled a $766 million contract with Moderna for an H5N1 vaccine and imposed new placebo requirements that would slow approvals in a fast-moving pandemic. These were not mere policy shifts. They dismantled the infrastructure that lets a democracy see and respond to invisible threats, and they did so in ways that aligned with ideological hostility to vaccines and with a broader distrust of expert institutions.\
\
Memory and symbolism were also rewritten. In the Oval Office, the bust of Martin Luther King Jr. was removed, with the White House refusing to provide proof of its new placement when asked by Black press outlets. At the Pentagon, Hegseth ordered a \'93passive approach\'94 to Juneteenth, instructing public affairs not to publish web content about the holiday. West Virginia\'92s governor ended state Juneteenth events and stripped the day of paid holiday status for workers, after signing a law to end diversity programs. Corporations followed suit. Target rolled back its DEI initiatives soon after the inauguration. Amazon and Verizon withdrew support from Juneteenth festivals, with Verizon\'92s move reportedly tied to regulatory approval for a merger. In the White House, the official portrait of Hillary Clinton was taken down from the First Ladies\'92 wall and replaced with a painting of Trump himself. These acts did not change statutes, but they changed what stories the state chose to honor. They curated which struggles\'97civil rights, emancipation, women\'92s leadership\'97would be visible and which would be quietly pushed to the margins.\
\
Economic and regulatory power moved closer to the president\'92s personal orbit. The EPA dropped a case that could have fined private prison operator GEO Group up to $4 million for using a toxic disinfectant on detainees, after the company made large donations to Trump and Republican leaders. In the crypto world, the SEC dismissed a lawsuit against Binance soon after it listed a Trump family token, and the administration loosened cryptocurrency enforcement across a dozen fraud cases, including those tied to a billionaire ally. At the same time, the Trump Organization launched \'93Trump Mobile,\'94 a branded phone service, and the president secured a \'93golden share\'94 in U.S. Steel that gave him permanent veto power over corporate decisions and influence over its board. Commerce floated the $5 million residency \'93Trump Card.\'94 These moves blurred the line between public office and private gain. Policy outcomes increasingly tracked the interests of donors, business partners, and the president\'92s own ventures, rather than any coherent public rationale.\
\
Foreign policy and military posture added another layer of strain. At the G7 summit in Canada, Trump left early, dismissing European partners and criticizing the decision to expel Russia from the G8, echoing Kremlin talking points. He claimed to represent Vladimir Putin\'92s interests and suggested that Russia\'92s inclusion would have prevented war. On social media he declared that the U.S. had \'93complete and total control\'94 over Iranian airspace and demanded Iran\'92s \'93unconditional surrender,\'94 even as carrier groups and refueling tankers moved toward the region. Within days he announced a pause on strikes to allow for negotiations, while Congress scrambled to reassert its war powers through bipartisan resolutions. The oscillation between brinkmanship and delay did not reassure allies. It showed how foreign crises could be used to concentrate decision-making in the Oval Office and to distract from domestic contests over law and rights.\
\
Amid these pressures, political violence moved from threat to fact. In Minnesota, state representative Melissa Hortman and her husband were assassinated at home by a man dressed as a police officer; state senator John Hoffman and his wife were wounded. The suspect carried a hit list of Democratic and abortion-rights officials. Governors and members of Congress condemned the attack, and federal charges followed, but right-wing media figures and even a U.S. senator spread false claims that the killer was a leftist tied to the Democratic governor. In Texas, credible threats forced the evacuation of the state capitol ahead of a \'93No Kings\'94 rally. The FBI added the suspect to its most wanted list and offered rewards, yet the information space around the violence filled with conspiracies that blamed the victims\'92 party. The trait the Clock tracks as tolerance of paramilitary violence ticked upward because the response from parts of the political class was not to draw a clear line against such acts but to fold them into the ongoing war over narrative.\
\
Civil society did not stand still. The \'93No Kings\'94 protests were among the largest in U.S. history, and they were not only oppositional. They were patriotic in their own terms, filled with flags, references to the Constitution, and invocations of 1775. Faith leaders in Los Angeles and Florida organized support networks for those targeted by raids. The Los Angeles Dodgers refused ICE agents entry to their stadium parking lots. The NAACP took the unprecedented step of not inviting the sitting president to its national convention. Journalists, legal observers, and protesters filed a lawsuit against DHS and Secretary Kristi Noem, alleging excessive force and threats to press freedom. These acts did not stop the raids or the firings, but they showed that the country\'92s civic muscle had not atrophied. Resistance was costly, but it was organized and visible.\
\
Looking ahead from Week 22, several processes were already in motion. The Supreme Court had yet to rule on the executive order attempting to cancel birthright citizenship. War powers resolutions on Iran were pending in both chambers, as were bills to curb crypto corruption and to reassert Congress\'92s role in authorizing force. DHS\'92s new rules on detention-center visits and the denial of entry to New York representatives signaled that the fight over oversight would continue in courts and committees. Massive layoffs at Voice of America were scheduled to take effect by September, and the administration\'92s cuts to pandemic preparedness and wildfire management would be tested by events no president can fully control. These were not hypothetical risks. They were scheduled decisions and ongoing cases that would either reinforce or check the week\'92s trends.\
\
By the end of Week 22, the Democracy Clock still read 7:52 p.m., but the meaning of that hour had shifted. The week showed how a government can harden its grip not only through spectacular acts but through the steady redirection of law, force, money, and memory toward the service of a narrow circle. It also showed that courts, legislatures, and citizens retain tools to resist, though they must work harder and accept greater risk to use them. The small numerical movement masks a deeper truth: that each time law is used as a weapon rather than a limit, each time troops are sent against protesters over a governor\'92s objection, each time an independent broadcaster is gutted or a holiday of emancipation is quietly dimmed, the distance between democracy and its opposite narrows. The official time remains 7:52 p.m. The light has not gone out. But the walls around the clock face have drawn closer, and the space in which Americans can act to move the hands back has grown more contested and more precious.}