{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26 \cf0 In Week 12, the pattern that had been emerging since the start of the term came into sharper focus. The presidency moved further away from bargaining and toward rule by decree, using emergency trade powers, immigration law, and targeted executive orders to reward allies and punish critics. At the same time, the institutions that produce knowledge and constrain power\'97universities, law firms, climate agencies, even the tax authority\'97were pulled into a new orbit, where their survival depended on political obedience. The week did not bring a single dramatic break. It showed how many separate levers could be pulled at once to change what it means to be safe, to speak, to vote, and to work inside the state.\
\
At the close of the previous period, the Democracy Clock stood at 7:49 p.m. It now reads 7:50 p.m., a movement of 0.2 minutes toward midnight. The numerical change is small, but the underlying shifts are not. The clock moved because more traits of democratic erosion became present or more entrenched: voter suppression framed as \'93integrity,\'94 law wielded as a weapon rather than a limit, universities disciplined through funding and consent decrees, civil service roles politicized or outsourced, security forces bent toward regime preservation, and citizenship stratified by origin and ideology. Courts, protests, and some legislative efforts did push back, but mostly at the margins. The center of gravity moved toward an executive that acts first and answers, if at all, later.\
\
One of the clearest developments was the open use of law as an instrument of retaliation. The president signed executive orders targeting specific law firms that had represented political rivals or pursued defamation cases against allied media. Susman Godfrey, which had helped Dominion Voting Systems secure a major settlement from Fox News, was singled out: its lawyers lost access to government buildings and security clearances, impairing their ability to represent clients with federal business. Additional orders and letters went to other elite firms, threatening them over diversity, equity, and inclusion programs and suggesting that recruiting non\uc0\u8209 white lawyers might itself be discriminatory. Under this pressure, five major firms agreed to provide $600 million in pro bono work for Trump\u8209 backed causes, to abandon race\u8209 conscious hiring, and to align their pro bono portfolios with administration priorities. The message was blunt.\
\
These moves did more than punish disfavored lawyers. They signaled that access to the federal state\'97its buildings, its clearances, its contracts\'97was contingent on political alignment. Law, which in a democracy is meant to bind the powerful as well as the weak, was here used to coerce the very profession charged with defending rights. The American Bar Association condemned the campaign, but many firms quietly complied, scrubbing DEI language and immigration work from their websites. The trait \'93law is a weapon, not a limit\'94 edged further toward midnight because the pattern was no longer episodic; it was organized, priced, and backed by the machinery of the executive branch. It had become a system.\
\
A second development centered on universities and the broader knowledge system. The administration had already frozen $400 million in grants and loans to Columbia University over its handling of pro\uc0\u8209 Palestinian protests. In Week 12, officials floated the next step: a consent decree that would place Columbia under ongoing federal court supervision, with contempt sanctions if it failed to comply with administration demands. Similar funding freezes hit Cornell and Northwestern, with more than $1.7 billion in combined federal support paused over allegations of antisemitism and, at the University of Pennsylvania, the inclusion of transgender athletes in women\'92s sports. Behind the rhetoric of protecting students lay a clear message. Institutions that did not align their speech and governance with the White House risked financial ruin.\
\
The pressure was not confined to funding. The administration\'92s antisemitism taskforce, staffed with Justice Department lawyers, treated campus politics as a national security problem. Student journalists at Columbia, Stanford, and Purdue faced takedown requests and safety threats, leading some outlets to anonymize or remove coverage of protests. At the same time, the administration considered a consent decree for Columbia that would effectively federalize its disciplinary and speech policies. The trait \'93universities are pressured to suppress dissent or lose funding\'94 rose because these were not isolated disputes over campus climate; they were part of a coordinated strategy to bring independent centers of thought under executive control. The stakes for academic freedom grew clearer.\
\
Immigration enforcement became a central tool in this strategy of control. Across the week, the administration expanded its use of the 1798 Alien Enemies Act to deport Venezuelan migrants, with the Supreme Court, in a 5\'964 ruling, allowing deportations to proceed so long as detainees received notice and a chance to challenge their classification. Another decision required challenges to be filed in Texas, where many migrants were held, rather than in Washington, D.C., shifting legal terrain in the government\'92s favor. At the same time, Immigration and Customs Enforcement broadened its mandate to arrest all immigrants without legal status, including those who had been regularly checking in and complying with prior rules. Asylum seekers like Alberto Lovo Rojas, who had lived and worked in the United States under supervision, were swept up in this new dragnet. Compliance no longer guaranteed safety.\
\
The machinery did not stop at the border. The Department of Homeland Security revoked the legal status of migrants who had entered through the CBP One app, instructing them to leave immediately. The administration announced plans to spend up to $45 billion on new, privately run detention facilities with lower standards and less oversight. The IRS entered into a memorandum of understanding with DHS to share sensitive taxpayer data on undocumented immigrants, and DOGE staffers worked with Palantir and IRS engineers on a system to mine tax records for deportation targets. In practice, the system misfired: deportation notices went to U.S. citizens, green card holders, and even an immigration lawyer whose contact details appeared on clients\'92 forms. A U.S.\uc0\u8209 born attorney in Massachusetts received an email ordering her to \'93self\u8209 deport,\'94 and an Australian with a valid work visa was detained, insulted, and banned for five years. Citizenship and legal status no longer guaranteed security; they became contingent on bureaucratic accuracy and political favor.\
\
The case of Kilmar Abrego Garcia, a Maryland father with legal status, showed how far this machinery could run past the law. He was deported to a Salvadoran prison in what the government later called an \'93administrative error.\'94 A district judge ordered his return, calling the deportation \'93wholly lawless.\'94 The administration appealed and placed the Justice Department lawyer who admitted the mistake, Erez Reuveni, on indefinite leave for failing to \'93zealously advocate\'94 the government\'92s position. The Supreme Court, in a unanimous 9\'960 decision, ordered the administration to facilitate Abrego\'92s return and to treat his case as if he had never been deported. Yet even after that ruling, the government failed to provide timely updates, prompting daily reporting orders from the lower court. The trait \'93citizenship stratified by wealth, ideology, and heritage\'94 moved because the right to remain in the country now depended not only on law but on whether the executive chose to obey the courts. That is a profound shift.\
\
The same week saw the executive branch deepen its hold over the civil service and the security forces. The Supreme Court granted an administrative stay that allowed the administration to proceed with mass firings of probationary federal employees, including hundreds at NOAA. Once the Court cleared the way, NOAA sent termination letters to climate scientists and other staff who had been in limbo, cutting more than a thousand positions across the agency. The loss of these workers will weaken the country\'92s capacity to provide accurate weather forecasts and climate data, with consequences for public safety and global climate efforts. At the Social Security Administration, DOGE\uc0\u8209 driven personnel cuts produced what employees described as a \'93death spiral,\'94 with operational chaos and degraded service for millions of beneficiaries. Ordinary people felt the strain.\
\
At the same time, the president proposed a $1 trillion Pentagon budget and signed orders to modernize defense acquisitions and reform foreign military sales, even as the Department of Defense continued to fail basic audits. The Senate confirmed retired Air Force Lieutenant General John Dan Caine as chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff despite his not meeting statutory requirements, after the president waived them. A U.S. Space Force commander was fired for \'93disloyalty,\'94 and the Secretary of Defense removed the U.S. military representative to NATO\'92s Military Committee as part of a broader national security purge. The president also authorized the military to take over public lands along the southern border and to create a buffer zone where active\uc0\u8209 duty soldiers would detain migrants until ICE arrived. These moves shifted the armed forces from a posture of external defense toward direct involvement in domestic enforcement and political loyalty, moving the trait \'93security forces protect power, not people\'94 closer to midnight. The line between war and policing blurred.\
\
Trade policy became another arena where unilateral executive action and insider advantage converged. On April 2, the president announced sweeping tariffs on nearly every trading partner, raising the average rate from 2.5% to around 22.5% and imposing especially high duties on China, the European Union, Japan, and Vietnam. Markets plunged, with U.S. stocks losing between $5 and $6.6 trillion in value within days, and recession odds rising sharply in the estimates of Goldman Sachs and the Federal Reserve chair. China, the EU, Canada, and other partners responded with retaliatory tariffs of 25% to 34% or more, and China blocked the sale of TikTok\'92s U.S. operations. The administration then escalated further, issuing executive orders that raised tariffs on Chinese imports to 104%, then 125%, and finally 145% when combined with a \'93fentanyl\'94 border tax. Apple, whose iPhones are largely assembled in China, faced price increases of nearly 80% on flagship models.\
\
The volatility itself became a form of power. Rumors of a tariff delay briefly sent markets soaring, only to be dashed when the White House confirmed the higher rates. On April 9, after days of turmoil, the president announced a 90\uc0\u8209 day pause on some tariffs, leaving a 10% blanket tariff in place for most countries and maintaining the 145% rate on China. House Speaker Mike Johnson praised the maneuver as a strategic use of leverage, while Democratic lawmakers accused the president of possible market manipulation and insider trading. Stock trading had spiked just before key announcements, and at least one member of Congress, Marjorie Taylor Greene, was reported to have shifted hundreds of thousands of dollars into Treasury bills days before the initial tariff declaration. Six senators asked the Securities and Exchange Commission to investigate potential insider trading by officials, donors, and allies. The trait \'93policy driven by elite lobbying and money\'94 moved because trade decisions that reshaped the global economy appeared to double as opportunities for those close to power to profit from foreknowledge. Public risk met private gain.\
\
Congress did not stand still, but its actions revealed a divided and often reactive legislature. In the Senate, Republicans Chuck Grassley and Maria Cantwell introduced a bill to require congressional approval for tariffs within 60 days, and seven Republican senators backed a separate measure to reclaim tariff authority from the president. Senator Rand Paul spoke on the floor against \'93living under emergency rule,\'94 and the editors of National Review urged Congress to end the trade war. A Democratic amendment to reverse 25% tariffs on Canada passed with bipartisan support. Yet in the House, the Republican majority used a procedural rule change to prevent a vote on overturning the tariffs, embedding the shield in the budget resolution that advanced the president\'92s broader agenda. The split was stark.\
\
The same House majority passed a budget framework that opened the way for large tax cuts and immigration measures while committing to $1.5 trillion in spending cuts. Analysts warned that the plan would add $5.8 trillion to the national debt, even as it slashed programs for low\uc0\u8209 income students, cancer research, Social Security staffing, and grants for high school students with disabilities. The Department of Government Efficiency, led by Elon Musk, drove many of these cuts, terminating grants for disabled students, eliminating thousands of SSA positions, and curtailing funding for cancer research and other scientific work. The trait \'93inequality is a feature, not a flaw\'94 moved because the fiscal choices shifted burdens onto the poor, the sick, and the elderly while preserving or expanding benefits for defense contractors and politically connected industries. The pattern of who wins and who loses hardened.\
\
Voting rights and electoral integrity came under renewed strain. The House passed the Safeguard American Voter Eligibility Act, requiring documentary proof of citizenship\'97passports, birth certificates, or similar documents\'97to register or update registration for federal elections. The bill also mandated purges of voter rolls based on incomplete data and imposed criminal penalties on election officials who registered voters without the required papers. Critics warned that millions of eligible voters, especially people of color, young voters, and rural residents, lacked ready access to such documents. In North Carolina, the state Court of Appeals ordered a recount and verification of 60,000 ballots in a state Supreme Court race, requiring voters without driver\'92s licenses or Social Security numbers, and overseas and military voters, to provide proof of identity within 15 business days or see their votes discarded. The state Supreme Court temporarily stayed that ruling, but later ordered thousands of overseas voters to prove eligibility within 30 days or lose their ballots, threatening to overturn a 734\uc0\u8209 vote margin in favor of Democrat Allison Riggs.\
\
These measures were justified in the language of \'93election integrity\'94 and fears of non\uc0\u8209 citizen voting, despite the lack of evidence of widespread fraud. They moved the trait \'93voter suppression rationalized as integrity\'94 because they shifted the default from inclusion to suspicion, placing the burden on voters to re\u8209 prove their right to participate after the fact. The use of QR\u8209 coded postcards from the state Republican Party to notify affected voters, directing them to a partisan website, further blurred the line between neutral administration and partisan advantage. The rules of the game were being rewritten.\
\
Information and memory were also reshaped. The National Park Service, under pressure from an anti\uc0\u8209 DEI campaign, removed a quote and image of Harriet Tubman from its Underground Railroad webpage, replacing them with language about \'93Black/White cooperation\'94 and omitting direct mention of slavery. After public outcry, the agency restored the content, but the episode revealed how easily official narratives could be sanitized. The Smithsonian Institution came under an executive order to purge \'93improper, divisive, or anti\u8209 American ideology\'94 from its museums and research entities. The Pentagon ordered a \'93digital content refresh\'94 to delete references to racism, ethnicity, LGBTQ identities, and related terms from public platforms. In Mississippi, the state library commission deleted race relations and gender studies databases from the Magnolia system used by schools and public libraries, citing new anti\u8209 DEI laws.\
\
At the same time, the White House terminated funding for the U.S. Global Change Research Program, effectively halting work on the next National Climate Assessment, and NOAA fired hundreds of climate scientists. The State Department, under Secretary Marco Rubio, instructed staff to catalogue instances of \'93anti\uc0\u8209 Christian bias\'94 during the previous administration, as part of an effort to end what the president called the \'93anti\u8209 Christian weaponization of government.\'94 Law firms removed DEI references from their websites and rewrote descriptions of pro bono work to emphasize causes favored by the administration. These actions moved the traits \'93textbooks and museums altered to erase dissent\'94 and \'93memory curated by power\'94 because they did not simply add new narratives; they deleted or delegitimized entire categories of experience\'97race, gender, sexuality, climate science\'97that complicate the story the regime prefers to tell. What remained on the record was what power chose to keep.\
\
Civil society and the courts did not remain silent. Millions of people joined \'93Hands Off\'94 protests in more than 1,300 cities, denouncing the administration\'92s alliance with Elon Musk, the Department of Government Efficiency, and the dismantling of federal agencies. Medicaid recipients from 28 states marched on Capitol Hill to oppose proposed cuts that would strip health care from low\uc0\u8209 income families, children, and the elderly. The 50501 Movement organized coordinated demonstrations in all 50 state capitals, providing protest planning guides and \'93Know Your Rights\'94 toolkits. Senator Cory Booker set a record with a 25\u8209 hour Senate speech calling on Americans to defend democracy and inspire hope. The streets and the Senate floor both carried the argument.\
\
In the courts, a federal judge ordered the White House to restore Associated Press access to presidential events after it had been barred for refusing to use the term \'93Gulf of America.\'94 Another judge blocked the administration from freezing school lunch and daycare food funds in Maine, and a separate court halted the termination of an immigration program that allowed more than 500,000 Cubans, Haitians, Nicaraguans, and Venezuelans to live temporarily in the United States. Sixteen attorneys general and the governor of Pennsylvania sued over cuts to education funds for low\uc0\u8209 income students. A federal judge rejected the president\'92s attempt to dismiss a defamation suit by the Exonerated Five, allowing the case to proceed. These rulings did not reverse the week\'92s structural shifts, but they showed that some guardrails still held, and that organized resistance could force reversals, as when the Social Security Administration abandoned a plan to end phone service for new claims after media exposure and public backlash. The system still had points of friction.\
\
Looking ahead from Week 12, several processes were already in motion. The administration\'92s threat to withhold federal funding from sanctuary cities and states, its planned consent decree against Columbia University, and its ongoing investigations into progressive and climate organizations and non\uc0\u8209 profit advocacy groups all pointed toward further use of federal power against disfavored jurisdictions and civil society. The 90\u8209 day tariff pause set a July deadline for new \'93Liberation Day\'94 decisions, with trading partners already signaling that they would not easily yield. The Supreme Court\'92s green light for Alien Enemies Act deportations, combined with the build\u8209 out of detention infrastructure and IRS\'96DHS data\u8209 sharing, suggested that immigration enforcement would remain a central instrument of domestic control. And the proposed $1 trillion Pentagon budget, alongside deep cuts to diplomacy and science, indicated a durable shift in federal priorities toward military power and away from public health, education, and climate resilience. The direction of travel was clear.\
\
In this context, the movement of the Democracy Clock to 7:50 p.m. matters less for its size than for its direction. The week showed an executive willing to test the limits of law and to ignore or delay compliance when rulings went against it. It showed a Congress that could still act, but often chose to shield the president\'92s most consequential decisions. It showed courts that could still enforce rights, but only case by case, and sometimes only after harm had been done. And it showed a civil society that remained capable of mass mobilization, yet was increasingly targeted by investigations, funding cuts, and surveillance. The contest over the future was active, but uneven.\
\
The official end\uc0\u8209 of\u8209 period time is 7:50 p.m. That time marks a democracy in which the forms of elections, courts, and agencies remain, but their substance is being hollowed out and repurposed. Law is bent toward loyalty, knowledge is curated by power, and the line between citizen and suspect is redrawn along axes of origin, belief, and dissent. The week\'92s events do not yet close off the path back toward a healthier order, but they narrow it, and they raise the cost of walking it.}