{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26 \cf0 By Week 3 of Trump\'92s second term, the shape of power was no longer a forecast but a lived fact. The week\'92s events showed a government in which formal authority and private wealth had begun to fuse, where law enforcement and foreign policy bent toward personal and factional ends, and where information itself became contested ground. The pattern was not a single dramatic break, but many coordinated cuts: to the civil service, to international commitments, to vulnerable communities, and to the record of what was happening. It was a week in which the walls of oversight closed in even as the reach of the executive and its allies widened. The Democracy Clock registered this as a further narrowing of democratic space, not yet a collapse, but a tightening coil.\
\
At the end of Week 2, the Democracy Clock stood at 7:39 p.m. It now reads 7:40 p.m., a movement of half a minute toward night. The numerical change is small, but the underlying shifts are not. The clock moved because executive power operated with less effective oversight, inspectors general were stripped from key agencies, the civil service was drawn deeper into partisan and private control, and religion and identity were more tightly bound to state power. At the same time, courts, unions, and state governments mounted visible resistance, blocking some of the most aggressive moves. The net result was a week in which the formal architecture of checks and balances still functioned in places, but the practical balance of power tilted further toward a presidency willing to use chaos, patronage, and private proxies to get its way.\
\
The most striking development was the emergence of Elon Musk\'92s \'93Department of Government Efficiency,\'94 or DOGE, as a kind of shadow state embedded inside the federal apparatus. Over the course of the week, Musk and his associates gained or consolidated access to the Treasury\'92s payment systems, the Office of Personnel Management\'92s human resources databases, the Small Business Administration\'92s systems, and the internal data of agencies like USAID, Education, NOAA, CMS, and the Department of Energy. In several cases, this access came over the objections of agency counsel or career officials, who were then sidelined or placed on leave. A 25\uc0\u8209 year\u8209 old engineer with prior ties to Musk\'92s companies was reported to have direct control over Treasury systems that disburse trillions of dollars in benefits and payments. A new server, installed without proper procurement or privacy review, sat in an OPM conference room, wired into databases holding medical histories and performance records for millions of federal workers. Senior civil servants found themselves locked out of systems they once oversaw. The state\'92s nervous system was being rewired from within.\
\
This fusion of private and public power was not only technical. Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent approved DOGE\'92s access to payment systems after the forced departure of a career official who had refused to cut off payments to USAID without legal authority. Bessent then elevated a Musk associate to a senior position overseeing those same systems. Musk himself was formally designated a special government employee and granted a top\uc0\u8209 secret clearance, even as his team\'92s legal status remained murky and unions and privacy advocates went to court to challenge their access. The effect was to place core fiscal and personnel levers of the federal government under the influence of a private billionaire whose interests and grievances were not subject to normal electoral or bureaucratic checks. Policy outcomes in this domain were driven as much by elite networks and capital as by statute or public deliberation. That was the point.\
\
The DOGE operation also targeted the human infrastructure of the state. Using OPM data, Musk emailed the entire civil service with a \'93deferred resignation\'94 offer that promised pay and benefits through September in exchange for a signed resignation. The fine print revealed that employees could be required to work through the period, that rescission of the resignation was at the sole discretion of agency heads, and that workers waived their right to enforce the agreement in court. Unions called it a scam and sued; a federal judge temporarily blocked the administration\'92s deadline and later enjoined the buyout plan itself. Yet by then, some 20,000 workers had reportedly accepted the offer, and the mere existence of the program signaled that the administration saw the permanent bureaucracy not as a neutral tool but as a field to be thinned and reshaped. Civil service roles, once protected by merit rules, were being politicized and, in places, privatized. Fear did the rest.\
\
Parallel to this internal capture was a deliberate dismantling of the Justice Department and the FBI as independent enforcers of law. Over the week, the administration fired or forced out senior FBI officials and federal prosecutors who had worked on January 6 cases or investigations involving Trump. Acting deputy attorney general Emil Bove ordered lists of agents involved in those investigations; the FBI complied in part, sending employee numbers and roles, while agents\'92 groups filed lawsuits to block the release of names. A separate email from an FBI field leader described fear and anxiety inside the bureau. At the same time, Trump personally ordered the firing of special counsel prosecutors, and the Justice Department withdrew from election fraud cases against political allies. These moves were framed as correcting \'93weaponization\'94 of the government, but in practice they converted the department into a shield for the president and a sword against his critics.\
\
Attorney General Pam Bondi\'92s confirmation cemented this shift. Bondi, a long\uc0\u8209 time ally with a record of anti\u8209 LGBTQ and anti\u8209 immigrant positions, took office as the department\'92s top lawyer while the purge was underway. Within days, she dismantled the DOJ\'92s foreign bribery unit and eliminated the Kleptocracy Initiative, which had seized billions from corrupt foreign elites. She disbanded the FBI\'92s Foreign Influence Task Force and scaled back enforcement of white\u8209 collar crimes, including foreign bribery and money laundering, while prioritizing drug and trafficking cases. She also reinstated the federal death penalty and launched a \'93Weaponization Working Group\'94 to review prosecutions of Trump and January 6 defendants. The pattern was clear. Enforcement against foreign interference and elite corruption was dialed down; enforcement that could be used to justify harsh domestic measures or to revisit cases against the president was dialed up. Law became less a limit on power and more a tool in its hands.\
\
Against this backdrop, the administration moved to strip away internal watchdogs. Trump removed inspectors general from at least twelve major agencies, weakening the offices charged with auditing programs, investigating waste and abuse, and reporting misconduct to Congress. At the same time, he fired independent inspectors at USAID and other aid\uc0\u8209 related entities as part of a broader effort to freeze and dismantle foreign assistance. Without inspectors general, the risks posed by DOGE\'92s access to payment systems and HR data, or by politically driven contract decisions, became harder to detect and harder still to correct. Oversight that once operated quietly in the background was now absent or subordinated. Rebuilding those capacities would be slow and uncertain.\
\
The week also saw a wave of appointments and nominations that rewarded loyalty, wealth, and family ties over expertise. Pam Bondi\'92s confirmation at Justice and Russell Vought\'92s at the Office of Management and Budget placed two architects of Trump\'92s ideological project in positions that control prosecution priorities and federal spending. At the Environmental Protection Agency, Trump proposed a leadership slate drawn from industry lobbyists and attorneys who had spent careers fighting environmental rules. At Energy, the Senate confirmed a fracking executive skeptical of climate science. Neil Jacobs, previously rebuked for manipulating hurricane forecasts, was nominated to lead NOAA. In the diplomatic sphere, Charles Kushner, a pardoned felon and real estate developer, was nominated as ambassador to France, while Massad Boulos, with thin credentials but close family ties, became a senior adviser on Middle Eastern affairs. These moves blurred the line between public office and private gain and signaled to the bureaucracy that loyalty to the president and his circle mattered more than professional standards.\
\
The Trump family\'92s business ventures underscored this fusion. Donald Trump Jr. joined a venture fund aimed at \'93conservative\'94 companies; Eric and Barron Trump helped run a cryptocurrency platform backed by controversial foreign investors; Jared Kushner\'92s Saudi\uc0\u8209 funded private equity firm partnered with the Trump Organization on overseas projects. Each of these ventures stood to benefit from the family\'92s political power and from regulatory decisions made by agencies now led by their allies. The emoluments line, already thin, grew thinner. Crony capitalism became less a side effect of governance and more its operating logic. Public office and private enrichment moved in tandem.\
\
Federal power was also used to pressure disfavored states and localities. In California, Trump tied disaster aid for wildfire\uc0\u8209 stricken communities to demands on water management, voter ID laws, and immigration enforcement, suggesting that relief might be conditioned on policy concessions. He signed an order directing the opening of dams in ways that alarmed local officials and risked flooding farms, a move that seemed more about asserting federal control than about sound resource management. The Justice Department sued Illinois and Chicago over their sanctuary laws, seeking to nullify local protections for immigrants and to force cooperation with federal deportation efforts. At the same time, Attorney General Bondi cut funding to \'93sanctuary jurisdictions\'94 more broadly. These actions used the purse and the courts to discipline jurisdictions that resisted the administration\'92s agenda, turning federal power into a lever against political opponents at the state and local level.\
\
Abroad, the United States stepped away from multilateral norms and toward unilateral coercion and ethno\uc0\u8209 national framing. Trump imposed sweeping tariffs on Canada, Mexico, and China, citing drugs and migration, then paused some of them after extracting symbolic concessions like border troops and a Canadian \'93fentanyl tsar.\'94 Canada, Mexico, and China announced retaliatory measures and WTO complaints, signaling the onset of a trade war that would hit consumers and industries on both sides. Trump froze foreign aid for ninety days and moved to dismantle USAID, locking staff out of headquarters, placing security officials on leave, and folding the agency under the State Department. He then withdrew the U.S. from the UN Human Rights Council and cut funding to UNRWA, the Palestinian refugee agency, while ordering a review of all international organizations receiving U.S. support. Sanctions were imposed on the International Criminal Court in response to investigations involving U.S. and Israeli personnel. An executive order halted aid to South Africa and framed Afrikaner landowners as refugees in need of resettlement, aligning U.S. policy with a particular racial narrative.\
\
Most dramatic was Trump\'92s announcement, alongside Israel\'92s prime minister, that the United States would \'93take over\'94 the Gaza Strip, develop it, and relocate its Palestinian population. The proposal, repeated and elaborated over several days, was widely described as a plan for ethnic cleansing and a resort\uc0\u8209 style occupation. It was met with alarm from lawmakers across the spectrum and from Arab\u8209 American groups, some of which rebranded themselves in opposition. Yet the rhetoric itself mattered. It signaled that the administration was willing to treat foreign territory and populations as objects of real estate development and demographic engineering, and it emboldened pro\u8209 settler forces in the region. Combined with threats to \'93take back\'94 the Panama Canal and to obliterate Iran, the Gaza plan contributed to a sense of foreign policy unmoored from law and precedent, driven instead by impulse and spectacle.\
\
At home, identity\uc0\u8209 based orders and campaigns deepened the stratification of citizenship. Trump signed executive orders purging transgender service members from the military, banning gender\u8209 affirming care for youth, and directing prisons to medically detransition trans inmates and move them to facilities based on sex at birth. He ordered federal employees to strip pronouns from email signatures and scrub \'93gender ideology\'94 from websites and programs. A separate order barred trans women and girls from competing in women\'92s sports and instructed Homeland Security to deny visas to trans athletes. These measures were accompanied by a broader order targeting diversity, equity, and inclusion programs in government, education, and the private sector, casting them as illegal discrimination against white men. West Point disbanded cultural and professional clubs, including groups for women, Latinx cadets, and LGBTQ students. A long\u8209 standing executive order prohibiting discrimination by federal contractors was revoked, and a 60\u8209 year\u8209 old equal opportunity order was rescinded. Equal citizenship became more conditional.\
\
Religion was pulled into this project as a tool of legitimacy and control. Trump signed orders establishing a task force to \'93eradicate anti\uc0\u8209 Christian bias\'94 in the federal government and creating a White House Faith Office to coordinate with churches and religious groups. The Justice Department was directed to prioritize prosecutions of anti\u8209 Christian violence and to review past actions for perceived bias. These moves were framed as protecting religious liberty, but they came alongside policies that targeted Muslims, immigrants, and LGBTQ people, and they privileged one religious identity in the machinery of the state. The effect was to recast the federal government as a guardian of a particular religious and cultural order rather than a neutral guarantor of equal rights. Faith became another arm of rule.\
\
Information itself became a battleground. Federal health and science websites, including CDC pages on contraception, HIV, and gender\uc0\u8209 affirming care, went dark or were stripped of content following executive orders against DEI and non\u8209 binary gender references. At NOAA, DOGE staff gained access to systems and some climate data disappeared. At HHS, a report condemning private equity\'92s role in worsening health outcomes was effectively buried when its news release vanished from the website. ICE updated timestamps on old press releases about deportations, making years\u8209 old raids appear as fresh operations in search results and stoking fear in immigrant communities. The FCC reinstated a news distortion complaint and released full footage of a vice\u8209 presidential interview, while the president called for CBS and \'9360 Minutes\'94 to be terminated over alleged editing. The Pentagon reshuffled press access to favor partisan outlets. Together, these actions did not yet amount to full censorship, but they showed a government willing to manipulate archives, search results, and media access to shape what the public could see and remember.\
\
The same data systems that underpinned this manipulation also became tools of potential control. With DOGE\'92s access to Treasury, OPM, CMS, SBA, and Energy IT systems, the administration and its private partners could, in principle, see and sort vast amounts of personal and financial information: social security numbers, bank accounts, employment histories, student aid records, and health payments. Lawsuits by unions and anonymous employees sought to halt this access, and a proposed order from the administration itself moved to limit DOGE\'92s reach in anticipation of judicial action. But the line had been crossed. Data and algorithms, once used to administer benefits and track compliance, now sat within reach of actors whose incentives included punishing enemies, rewarding friends, and shaping narratives. The tools of administration doubled as tools of pressure.\
\
Despite this consolidation, the week also revealed points of resistance. Federal judges blocked or paused several core initiatives: the freeze on grants and loans, the buyout deadline for federal workers, the executive order ending birthright citizenship, and the transfer and forced detransition of trans women in federal prisons. Courts ordered the restoration of funding for immigration court support programs and extended a halt on the broader funding freeze, citing constitutional violations and catastrophic risks. FBI agents and federal employee unions sued to protect their privacy and jobs, challenging the legality of DOGE\'92s access and the administration\'92s purges. Labor unions and professional associations filed suits to reverse USAID cuts and to contest the firing of a National Labor Relations Board member. In North Carolina, civil society groups mobilized against a judge\'92s attempt to discard tens of thousands of votes in a state supreme court race. These actions did not reverse the structural shifts, but they slowed them and kept alive the idea that law could still bind power.\
\
Congress, though controlled by Republicans, was not entirely silent. Democratic senators introduced a bill to require congressional approval for tariffs, even if it was unlikely to pass. House and Senate leaders proposed legislation to protect taxpayer data from DOGE and to bar special government employees from holding federal contracts. Senate Democrats staged an all\uc0\u8209 night protest against Russell Vought\'92s nomination and a filibuster to defend social programs. Representative Al Green announced impeachment articles over the Gaza plan, and California\'92s legislature appropriated funds to defend the state\'92s policies and immigrants against federal crackdowns. These moves were often symbolic in immediate effect, but they signaled that parts of the legislative branch still saw themselves as a counterweight, not a rubber stamp. The habit of opposition persisted.\
\
Outside government, protests grew. Thousands gathered near the Capitol and at the Treasury Department to oppose Musk\'92s control over payment systems and the administration\'92s broader agenda. Demonstrations took place in North Carolina against cabinet appointments, and calls flooded Senate offices. Some groups that had once supported Trump, such as \'93Arab Americans for Trump,\'94 rebranded in opposition to his Gaza plan. These acts of civic resistance did not stop the executive orders or the purges, but they kept public dissent visible and reminded officials that the electorate was watching. Streets and squares remained part of the story.\
\
Looking ahead from Week 3, several fault lines were already in motion. Courts had scheduled hearings on DOGE\'92s access to federal databases, on the federal worker buyout scheme, and on the legality of USAID\'92s dismantling. The Supreme Court was considering a case that could revive the nondelegation doctrine, potentially stripping agencies of regulatory authority and shifting power toward the judiciary. The Federal Election Commission faced internal turmoil after Trump attempted to fire its chair while the agency reviewed complaints against him. Internationally, retaliatory tariffs and WTO complaints were queued up, and the administration\'92s sanctions on the ICC and withdrawal from UN bodies set the stage for further clashes. None of these outcomes were predetermined, but they marked clear decision points where the trajectory of the term could bend further toward entrenchment or be partially checked.\
\
By the close of the week, the Democracy Clock\'92s new time\'977:40 p.m.\'97captured a country still far from midnight but moving in that direction with greater speed and coordination. The week mattered because it showed how quickly formal safeguards can be hollowed out when executive power, private wealth, and ideological zeal align. Inspectors general can be removed in a day; payment systems can be opened to outsiders with a memo; prosecutors and agents can be fired with a list; aid agencies can be shuttered with police tape and a tweet. Rebuilding those capacities, if it becomes possible, will take years. The week also showed that resistance is not absent. Judges, unions, state governments, and protesters all found ways to slow or spotlight the drift. Yet the balance of initiative lay with those willing to use chaos and confusion as tools of rule. That is why the clock moved, even by half a minute. It records not only what has been lost, but how much more courage and coordination will be required to keep what remains. At the end of Week 3, the official time stands at 7:40 p.m., with daylight still visible, but the shadows lengthening.}