{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 .SFNS-Semibold;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 .SFNS-Regular;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue-Bold;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red14\green14\blue14;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c6700\c6700\c6700;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs44 \cf2 THE MORAL FLOOR (Candidate Edition)
\f1\b0\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs30 \cf2 The Ethical Baseline You Must Uphold If You Wish to Govern a Free People.
\f1\b0\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Running for office is not an act of self-advancement.\cf0 \
\cf2 It is an application for public trust.\cf0 \
\cf2 This card tells you the minimum you must bring \'97 the floor beneath every decision, every vote, every moment of pressure.\cf0 \
\cf2 If you cannot meet it, the republic cannot rely on you.\cf0 \

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 1. The Six Traits You Must Embody
\f1\b0\fs28 \cf0 \
\cf2 These are not aspirations.\cf0 \
\cf2 They are requirements.\cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs30 \cf2 Character
\f1\b0\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Your private honesty becomes your public integrity.\cf0 \
\cf2 Your words must match your actions.\cf0 \
\cf2 Your ambition must never outrun your conscience.\cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs30 \cf2 Ethics
\f1\b0\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Public power is not personal property.\cf0 \
\cf2 You must draw bright boundaries between duty, benefit, and loyalty.\cf0 \
\cf2 If you cannot refuse an advantage, you cannot serve the people.\cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs30 \cf2 Restraint
\f1\b0\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 The republic depends on leaders who limit themselves even when the rules do not.\cf0 \
\cf2 You must protect the guardrails you could easily break.\cf0 \
\cf2 Power without restraint becomes abuse.\cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs30 \cf2 Truthfulness
\f1\b0\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Your obligation is to factual honesty, especially when truth is inconvenient.\cf0 \
You must correct errors, reject misinformation, and resist the urge to shape public perception through deceit.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs30 \cf2 Good Faith
\f1\b0\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 You must work within the spirit of the law, not only its loopholes.\cf0 \
\cf2 Negotiation, oversight, and deliberation only function when conducted honestly.\cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs30 \cf2 Stewardship
\f1\b0\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Your job is to strengthen institutions for those who come after you.\cf0 \
\cf2 You must leave the office better than you found it.\cf0 \
\cf2 Your career is temporary; the republic is not.\cf0 \

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 2. The Six Breaches That End Trust
\f1\b0\fs28 \cf0 \
\cf2 If you do any of the following, you have fallen through the moral floor:\cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf2 \'95 Deliberate dishonesty in public matters
\f1\b0 \cf0 \

\f2\b \cf2 \'95 Using the office to enrich yourself, your family, or your allies
\f1\b0 \cf0 \

\f2\b \cf2 \'95 Threatening or demeaning opponents or critics
\f1\b0 \cf0 \

\f2\b \cf2 \'95 Excusing political violence or undermining elections
\f1\b0 \cf0 \

\f2\b \cf2 \'95 Abusing emergency powers or weakening institutional checks
\f1\b0 \cf0 \

\f2\b \cf2 \'95 Bending rules to concentrate personal or party power
\f1\b0 \cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 A single breach creates a precedent.\cf0 \
\cf2 Two form a pattern.\cf0 \
\cf2 A pattern becomes your legacy.\cf0 \

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 3. The Candidate\'92s Quick Reflection Test
\f1\b0\fs28 \cf0 \
Before you ask anyone for their vote, answer \'97 honestly \'97 the following:\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf2 1. Would the republic be stronger if every leader behaved as I do?
\f1\b0 \cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 If the answer is no, you are not ready.\cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf2 2. Do I have the courage to tell the truth when it hurts my ambitions?
\f1\b0 \cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 If not, the office will corrupt you.\cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf2 3. Am I prepared to lose an election rather than betray the Constitution or the people I serve?
\f1\b0 \cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 If not, you are running for yourself, not the country.\cf0 \
\cf2 These are not rhetorical questions.\cf0 \
\cf2 They are the measure of your fitness for power.\cf0 \

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 4. What the Public Will Expect of You
\f1\b0\fs28 \cf0 \
\cf2 Citizens will forgive imperfection.\cf0 \
\cf2 They will not forgive betrayal.\cf0 \
\cf2 They expect:\cf0 \
\cf2 \'95 clarity without spin,\cf0 \
\cf2 \'95 service without self-interest,\cf0 \
\cf2 \'95 firmness without cruelty,\cf0 \
\cf2 \'95 disagreement without contempt,\cf0 \
\cf2 \'95 duty without excuses,\cf0 \
\cf2 \'95 decisions grounded in the nation\'92s long-term health, not its short-term theatrics.\cf0 \
\cf2 Every moment you hold office, you are teaching the public what democracy is.\cf0 \
\cf2 Teach well.\cf0 \

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 5. The Moral Floor Commitment
\f1\b0\fs28 \cf0 \
\cf2 If you choose to run, commit the following to yourself and to the people:\cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf2 \'93I will not lie. I will not use my office for personal gain.
\f1\b0 \cf0 \

\f2\b \cf2 I will protect elections, institutions, and the peaceful transfer of power.
\f1\b0 \cf0 \

\f2\b \cf2 I will act with restraint. I will negotiate in good faith.
\f1\b0 \cf0 \

\f2\b \cf2 I will strengthen the republic for those who follow.\'94
\f1\b0 \cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 If you cannot make that commitment, the right choice is not to run.\cf0 \

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 6. Why Every Seat Is Winnable \'97 and Why That Matters
\f1\b0\fs28 \cf0 \
Authoritarian drift has created a universal opening.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf2 The public is hungry for integrity.
\f1\b0 \cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 In 2026, incumbency is not protection.\cf0 \
\cf2 Every seat \'97 red, blue, rural, urban, suburban \'97 is vulnerable if the incumbent:\cf0 \
\cf2 \'95 enabled the One Big Beautiful Bill,\cf0 \
\cf2 \'95 ignored or excused the Epstein files cover-up,\cf0 \
\cf2 \'95 surrendered congressional authority,\cf0 \
\cf2 \'95 confirmed corrupt or unfit appointees,\cf0 \
\cf2 \'95 tolerated unlawful use of emergency powers,\cf0 \
\cf2 \'95 remained silent in moments requiring moral courage.\cf0 \
Voters are not looking for heroes.\
\cf2 They are looking for custodians \'97 people willing to do the unglamorous, often thankless work of protecting the republic.\cf0 \
\cf2 If that is you, step forward.\cf0 \
\cf2 If it is not, step aside.\cf0 \

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 7. Final Charge
\f1\b0\fs28 \cf0 \
\cf2 A campaign is not a performance.\cf0 \
\cf2 It is the beginning of a promise.\cf0 \
\cf2 A republic cannot outlive the integrity of the people who lead it.\cf0 \
\cf2 Bring integrity.\cf0 \
\cf2 Bring courage.\cf0 \
\cf2 Bring restraint.\cf0 \
\cf2 Bring truth.\cf0 \
\cf2 Bring service.\cf0 \
\cf2 If you do, the country will meet you halfway.\cf0 \
\cf2 If you don\'92t, the country will pay the price.}