{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26 \cf0 Week 21: Emergency Powers as Routine Governance\
In Los Angeles and beyond, immigration raids, troop deployments, and cultural decrees showed how emergency tools can be normalized as everyday management.\
The twenty-first week of Trump\'92s second term unfolded as a study in how emergency tools can be made to feel routine. Immigration enforcement, protest policing, and even public memory were drawn into a single field of action, with the presidency at its center. What might once have been treated as extraordinary\'97federal troops in a major American city, welfare data in the hands of deportation officers, monuments ordered by decree\'97was presented as management, security, and patriotism. The pattern did not depend on a single rupture. It depended on repetition.\
At the start of Week 21, the Democracy Clock stood at 7:59 p.m. By the end, it read 8:00 p.m., a net movement of 0.4 minutes. The shift was small in measure and heavy in content. It reflected the fusion of immigration raids with military deployments in Los Angeles, the testing of legal limits on Guard federalization and election control, and the widening use of data, media regulation, and cultural policy to reward loyalty and punish dissent. Courts and civil society did not stand still. Their resistance was reactive and often partial, while executive power moved in many directions at once.\
The clearest expression of that power came in California. Over the objections of Governor Gavin Newsom and every Democratic governor in the country, President Trump federalized thousands of California National Guard troops and sent them into Los Angeles. The stated purpose was to support immigration enforcement and restore order around protests. In practice, the move shifted control of a core state security function from Sacramento to the White House. The Guard, which normally answers to the governor in domestic matters, now took orders from a president who had framed the city\'92s protests as a \'93Migrant Invasion\'94 and a possible \'93insurrection.\'94 That framing mattered.\
Alongside the Guard came active-duty Marines. Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth ordered hundreds into the Los Angeles area and signaled readiness to send more. Marines are trained for war, not crowd control. Their presence in a domestic protest zone blurred the line between military and civilian policing in a way that previous generations had treated as a last resort. Here, the deployments were part of a planned immigration strategy, not a response to an unforeseen catastrophe. Reports later indicated that the use of troops for immigration enforcement had been in the works for months.\
On the ground, ICE and DHS carried out large-scale raids across Los Angeles and other California communities. Agents swept through workplaces and neighborhoods, often without warrants, using armored vehicles and flash-bang grenades. People with no criminal records were detained. Access to lawyers was delayed or denied. Conditions in holding facilities were poor. The raids did not stop at noncitizens. A deputy U.S. marshal was mistakenly arrested. Newark\'92s mayor was taken into custody while observing an operation. A pregnant U.S. citizen was violently arrested. These incidents showed how a campaign aimed at immigrants can spill over into the rights of citizens when force is normalized.\
Protesters who gathered against the raids and the troop deployments met a similar posture. Federal officers and Guard units used rubber bullets, flash-bang grenades, and other \'93less lethal\'94 munitions against largely peaceful crowds. One widely shared video showed an officer firing a round at close range at a lone woman near her home. Journalists covering the protests reported being hit with projectiles and briefly detained. Overhead, Customs and Border Protection flew Predator drones, capturing and releasing aerial footage of the city. The tools of foreign surveillance and war were now part of the visual language of domestic protest control.\
Oversight did not fare well in this environment. Members of Congress were turned away from detention centers in Los Angeles and New York when they tried to inspect conditions during the raids. A senator, Alex Padilla, was dragged and handcuffed by federal agents while questioning DHS officials at a press conference about the deployments and arrests. The arrest of SEIU California\'92s president, David Huerta, while he observed a raid, sent a similar message to labor. The law still recognized congressional oversight and union advocacy. The practice on the ground treated both as interference.\
The human and fiscal costs of this militarized approach were substantial. The Pentagon\'92s comptroller estimated that federalizing the Guard and deploying Marines to Los Angeles would cost $134 million. ICE raids at plants like Glenn Valley Foods removed large portions of the workforce, disrupting food production and local labor markets. Even President Trump acknowledged that his immigration policy was hurting farmers by removing long-term workers. Yet the administration pressed on, with White House adviser Stephen Miller demanding arrest quotas of at least 3,000 people per day. Volume became a metric of success.\
Public response grew in scale and intensity. Anti-ICE protests in Los Angeles and other cities continued through the week, sometimes including property damage but more often marked by peaceful marches and vigils. As Trump prepared a tank-filled military parade in Washington tied to his birthday, organizers funded by figures like Christy Walton launched \'93No Kings Day\'94 and \'93No Kings\'94 demonstrations at roughly 2,000 sites. Millions of people planned and joined protests that explicitly linked deportations, troop deployments, and the president\'92s defiance of court orders. In several states, Republican governors and sheriffs activated or threatened to activate their own National Guard units and warned of harsh responses, including lethal force, if protests turned unruly. Militarization and resistance fed each other.\
Against this backdrop, courts and state officials tried to draw lines. California\'92s attorney general and governor filed suit challenging Trump\'92s seizure of the state\'92s National Guard, arguing that the federalization exceeded statutory authority and violated the Tenth Amendment. A federal district judge, Charles Breyer, agreed, ruling that the president had acted unlawfully. But the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals quickly stayed that order, leaving federal control of the Guard in place while the case proceeded. The episode showed both the capacity of courts to check overreach and the ease with which rapid appeals can blunt immediate effect.\
Immigration law became another contested field. In Texas, a federal court blocked the administration\'92s attempt to use the Alien Enemies Act to deport people to El Salvador, holding that the wartime statute could not be repurposed for routine immigration removals and requiring a 30-day window for legal challenges. In New Jersey, Judge Michael Farbiarz ordered the release of a Palestinian activist whom the administration had detained as a supposed foreign-policy threat, limiting claims to hold noncitizens indefinitely without charges. Advocacy groups pursued suits to stop ICE from arresting immigrants at courthouses, arguing that such practices deterred people from seeking justice. These rulings did not dismantle the enforcement machinery. They narrowed some of its most aggressive edges.\
Election administration also came under judicial scrutiny. Federal judges in Massachusetts and Washington, DC issued injunctions against Trump\'92s executive order requiring proof of citizenship to vote in federal elections and threatening to cut funds to states that did not comply. Another ruling emphasized that the Constitution grants no general election-administration power to the president, curbing efforts to centralize control over voting rules in the executive branch. These decisions reaffirmed that, on paper, the architecture of federal elections remains decentralized and resistant to unilateral redesign.\
Yet the same week saw the executive branch retaliate against oversight actors. The Department of Justice indicted Representative LaMonica McIver for allegedly impeding immigration officers during a detention-center visit, blurring the line between legitimate congressional oversight and criminal interference. Senator Padilla\'92s rough treatment at a DHS event reinforced the point. Inside the Pentagon, the inspector general opened an investigation into whether Defense Secretary Hegseth\'92s aides had been told to delete encrypted Signal messages, raising questions about record-keeping and accountability in the very office directing domestic troop deployments. The formal mechanisms of oversight still existed. Their users now faced legal and physical risk.\
Courts remained active beyond immigration and elections. Judges temporarily blocked several administration efforts to defund or censor disfavored educational and research institutions, including orders targeting the American Bar Association, grants labeled as promoting \'93gender ideology,\'94 and funding tied to campus protest policies. An appeals court upheld a $5 million defamation award against Donald Trump in the E. Jean Carroll case, affirming that even a president can be held civilly liable for defamatory attacks on private citizens. At the same time, Congress considered protective legislation like the My Body, My Data Act, aimed at shielding reproductive health information from surveillance, and the Election Assistance Commission scheduled public meetings on voting system guidelines and a 2025 election data summit. The legal landscape was crowded, contested, and far from settled.\
Immigration itself became a vehicle for ideological policing. ICE and DOJ targeted immigrants and activists for pro-Palestine speech, using arrests, visa denials, and surveillance to punish political expression. The State Department revoked visas for hundreds of international students involved in pro-Palestine protests, turning immigration status into an instrument of campus discipline. USCIS announced that it would monitor immigrants\'92 social media for \'93antisemitic activity\'94 that could affect visa decisions, tying online speech to legal presence in the country. These moves did not ban dissent outright. They made it far more costly for those without citizenship.\
The reach of enforcement extended into welfare and health systems. The administration authorized the transfer of Medicaid enrollees\'92 personal data, including immigration status, to DHS to aid deportations. Information that people had provided to obtain medical care now flowed into enforcement databases. This repurposing of welfare data undermined trust in social programs and blurred the line between service provision and policing. Local institutions responded as best they could. The Los Angeles Unified School District created safety perimeters and alternative viewing options around graduations to shield immigrant families from ICE presence, adjusting school operations to reduce exposure to raids.\
The stratification of rights was visible in smaller stories as well. A globally known influencer, Khaby Lame, was detained over an alleged visa overstay and agreed to voluntary departure. The Equal Employment Opportunity Commission\'92s acting chair ordered staff to halt processing of gender-identity discrimination claims and removed nonbinary markers from intake forms, effectively denying trans and nonbinary workers equal access to federal civil-rights enforcement. The Department of Health and Human Services proposed eliminating LGBTQ-specific counseling from the national 988 suicide hotline, reducing tailored support for a vulnerable group. These administrative choices did not change the text of civil-rights statutes. They changed who could realistically claim their protection.\
Media and information systems came under coordinated pressure. The Department of Justice reversed a prior policy and granted itself broader authority to subpoena journalists\'92 records in leak investigations, not only for classified information but for disclosures deemed to \'93undermine\'94 Trump\'92s agenda. This shift, combined with targeting of lawyers and potential whistleblowers through security-clearance revocations, raised the personal risk of exposing wrongdoing. The FCC, under Chairman Brendan Carr, opened investigations into disfavored outlets like CBS over editorial choices, while the administration moved to dismantle the U.S. Agency for Global Media and constrain Voice of America. Public broadcasters NPR and PBS faced defunding through both executive action and a House rescissions bill.\
Individual journalists felt the weight of this environment. ABC News suspended and later fired correspondent Terry Moran after critical comments about Trump officials, following outreach from the administration. The White House retaliated against the Associated Press for using disfavored terminology, removing it from press pools and limiting access even after a court found First Amendment violations. On the streets of Los Angeles, reporters were hit with rubber bullets and pepper balls, and press and civil-liberties groups documented what they described as deliberate targeting. At the same time, the administration embedded Dr. Phil\'92s television crew inside ICE raids, turning coercive operations into curated content for sympathetic audiences. Independent reporting was squeezed. State-shaped narratives were amplified.\
Control over culture and education moved in parallel. Trump issued executive orders to restore removed monuments and create a National Garden of American Heroes, using federal power to entrench a celebratory version of U.S. history in public space. He announced the restoration of Confederate names on Army bases, reversing efforts to confront the legacy of slavery and secession. At the Kennedy Center, he removed the chair and president to combat perceived \'93wokeness,\'94 extending presidential influence into a major cultural institution. He also tried to fire the director of the National Portrait Gallery over diversity initiatives, but the Smithsonian\'92s Board of Regents refused, asserting its authority over personnel decisions and preserving a measure of institutional independence.\
Inside government and military education systems, the administration ordered the removal of hundreds of DEI-related books and activities. Military academies and Defense Department schools purged titles dealing with race, gender, and sexuality from their libraries and curricula. Federal agencies scrubbed more than 250 DEI and gender-related terms from their websites under executive orders, narrowing the language through which government could describe marginalized groups and equity efforts. The Department of Education threatened to revoke funding from schools that taught about systemic racism. Grants for research using disfavored gender-related terms were canceled. Fulbright projects involving DEI themes were subjected to political approval, and some scholarships were blocked.\
These moves were echoed in state and civil-society arenas. Florida officials threatened criminal prosecution of a school superintendent over library books labeled as pornography, even when legal standards did not support that label. When book-removal bills stalled in the legislature, the state board of education pursued similar restrictions administratively. Advocacy groups like Moms for Liberty and Citizens Defending Freedom organized campaigns to purge books and reshape curricula on race, LGBTQ issues, and sex education, sometimes reporting librarians to law enforcement. The Southern Baptist Convention endorsed a resolution calling for repeal of same-sex marriage legalization. New York City adopted the IHRA definition of antisemitism for city agencies, raising concerns that criticism of Israel could be conflated with hate speech. Pride flags were banned from federal offices and consular posts. Religion and morality were harnessed to legitimize a narrower vision of identity and belonging.\
Within the machinery of government, politicization deepened. At the Department of Homeland Security, a 22-year-old recent graduate was appointed to lead its main terrorism-prevention center, raising questions about whether loyalty and optics had displaced experience and institutional memory. Health and Human Services Secretary Robert F. Kennedy Jr. dismissed all 17 members of the CDC\'92s vaccine advisory committee and moved to replace them with controversial figures, politicizing a body whose value depended on scientific independence. Director of National Intelligence Tulsi Gabbard fired the acting counsel to the intelligence community inspector general and installed a direct adviser, undermining the IG\'92s independence and concentrating control over internal investigations.\
Civil-rights enforcement and revenue collection were similarly reshaped. The EEOC\'92s sidelining of gender-identity cases and removal of nonbinary markers signaled that protections for trans and nonbinary workers would not be meaningfully enforced. The Senate confirmed Billy Long, a former congressman who had once sought to abolish the IRS, as IRS commissioner, aligning a key tax institution with anti-tax ideology and raising the risk of internal sabotage or demoralization. The Department of Government Efficiency\'92s earlier hollowing out of USAID, now visible in impaired development capacity, showed how ad hoc executive entities could be used to weaken diplomacy and aid under the banner of cutting waste.\
Ethics boundaries eroded. Congressman Mark Green accepted a private-sector job while remaining in Congress without disclosing his employer, highlighting weak enforcement of conflict-of-interest rules. The Department of Justice issued orders revoking security clearances from law firms representing Trump\'92s opponents, using national-security tools to punish legal advocacy. Yet there were pockets of internal resistance. More than 90 NIH scientists signed a letter opposing administration policies they said undermined the agency\'92s mission, defending scientific integrity and public health. The Pentagon inspector general\'92s probe into deleted messages, and the Smithsonian board\'92s refusal to fire the Portrait Gallery director, showed that some watchdogs and boards still asserted their roles.\
Information and economic policy intertwined. The administration suppressed or altered economic and climate data, delaying deficit reports, editing climate assessments, and cutting staff at statistical agencies. Commentators documented these practices, preserving an alternative record. The Environmental Protection Agency moved to eliminate greenhouse gas limits and weaken toxic standards for power plants, shifting regulatory power toward fossil-fuel interests. The National Park Service faced deep cuts to stewardship budgets, including programs protecting night skies and soundscapes. These choices traded long-term public health and shared heritage for short-term industry gains.\
Funding and regulation became tools of discipline. The administration pulled grants from the American Bar Association after it criticized Trump, froze grants and threatened Harvard\'92s tax-exempt status over hiring and admissions policies, and cut support for scientific projects using banned terms. Universities that allowed campus protests faced funding threats. Medical journals were accused of political bias, and officials hinted at restricting government scientists\'92 ability to publish in them. A sweeping \'93One Big, Beautiful Bill\'94 budget reconciliation package, promoted by Republican leadership and the White House, proposed cuts to Medicaid and tax changes favoring the wealthy, using budget procedures to enact far-reaching redistributive changes with limited deliberation. The World Bank and other analysts projected that Trump\'92s trade war would halve U.S. growth, tying confrontational tariff policies to broader economic costs.\
All of this unfolded amid a deliberate multiplication of fronts. Immigration raids, troop deployments, media fights, environmental rollbacks, book bans, and data manipulation did not occur in sequence. They arrived together. Oversight actors\'97courts, state officials, scientists, journalists\'97were forced to choose where to focus limited attention and resources. The administration\'92s use of data systems for enforcement, from Medicaid transfers to social-media surveillance, expanded monitoring of ordinary people while leaving elite decision-making more opaque. Chaos became a strategy, not an accident.\
The week closed with no single decisive event. Instead, it left a layered record of how power was used and contested. Executive authority widened through federalization of troops, reinterpretation of statutes, and control over information and culture. Oversight persisted, but under strain, with judges issuing injunctions that were quickly appealed, lawmakers facing indictment and manhandling, and internal watchdogs being reshaped. Public resistance was large and visible, from \'93No Kings\'94 marches to letters from scientists, yet it operated in an environment where the costs of dissent were rising.\
In the arc of the term, Week 21 marked a deepening of patterns already present rather than a new departure. Emergency-style tools were normalized. Immigration became a testbed for rights erosion. Media, schools, and museums were drawn into the struggle over narrative and memory. The small movement of the Democracy Clock captured this accumulation: not a collapse, but a tightening of the space in which democratic institutions can act, and in which citizens can stand, without fear.\
}