{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0\stshfdbch0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman{\*\falt Palatino};}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\stylesheet {\s0 Normal;}}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
{\info
{\author }
{\creatim\yr2025\mo11\dy30\hr19\min51\sec18\timesinceref786189078}
{\revtim\yr2025\mo11\dy30\hr19\min52\sec6\timesinceref786189126}}\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26 \cf0 Interlude: From Plymouth Rock to 7:31 p.m.\
\
A short history of how a nation arrived at the edge of its democratic evening.\
\
America was founded with two forces in tension: an aspiration toward self-government and a set of exclusions so deep that the aspiration could not develop without struggle. From the moment the first colonial assemblies met under the shadow of empire, the country carried both the promise of popular sovereignty and the contradictions that undermined it. The clock began ticking long before there was a clock to read.\
\
Every era in the republic\'92s life altered the hour. Independence shifted authority from a monarchy to a people still defining who \'93the people\'94 were. The Constitution built machinery that could sustain a republic but also leave vast areas of unaccountable power. Slavery entrenched authoritarian traits at the core of the new nation; abolition ended the structure but not the habits it bred. At every stage, democratic gains coexisted with democratic damage \'97 and neither erased the other.\
\
Reconstruction moved the hands toward noon more quickly than any period in American history, and its violent overthrow moved them back just as quickly. Jim Crow formalized minority rule over millions, entrenching traits that would take a century to unwind. Industrialization created new power centers that bypassed the electorate. The Progressive reforms and later the New Deal built new protections and institutions, shifting time toward daylight \'97 but at the same moment the country tolerated or endorsed anti-democratic structures in other domains. The clock never moved in only one direction.\
\
The mid-20th century saw a rare convergence: courts that expanded rights, movements that expanded participation, and institutions that demanded accountability. The civil rights era brought the country closer to democratic noon than it had ever been. But those gains were met by counter-movements that developed quietly at first \'97 in economic doctrine, media infrastructure, campaign finance, and partisan identity. The Watergate crisis temporarily reasserted limits, but the structural vulnerabilities exposed by the scandal were never fully repaired.\
\
Beginning in the 1980s, national politics reorganized around a new architecture: concentrated wealth, polarized information, deregulated institutions, and increasingly winner-take-all elections. These forces hardened over decades, weakening the guardrails that had once slowed democratic backsliding. The end of the Cold War removed an external discipline; the rise of partisan media replaced a shared factual baseline; and the erosion of cross-party coalitions left fewer incentives for democratic restraint. By the early 2000s, the country\'92s democratic time had already moved noticeably toward evening.\
\
The post-9/11 expansion of executive power, combined with the judiciary\'92s increasing willingness to bless partisan advantage, accelerated that drift. The financial crisis deepened inequality; the Senate abandoned norm-based governance; statehouses gerrymandered themselves into permanence. Social platforms amplified disinformation and grievance. The conditions for a democratic recession were in place long before anyone named the danger. When Donald Trump entered politics, he did not create these traits. He activated them.\
\
Trump\'92s first presidency moved the clock significantly toward nightfall \'97 not because every action was unprecedented, but because the surrounding system had lost the capacity to correct him. The guardrails that had resisted earlier presidents had been hollowed by decades of structural change. When he returned to power in 2025, he inherited a country already at 7:31 p.m. \'97 closer to democratic twilight than at any point since Reconstruction. The score reflected not one man\'92s will but a long arc of cumulative strain: judicial entrenchment, partisan geography, institutional weakness, economic concentration, disinformation ecosystems, and a political culture increasingly tolerant of rule-breaking when practiced by its own side.\
\
That is why the clock began where it did.\
Not because of catastrophe, but because of accumulation.\
Not because democracy collapsed overnight, but because time moved, week by week, trait by trait, until damage that once would have shocked the nation now seemed like background noise.\
\
This interlude exists for one purpose: to say plainly that Trump\'92s second term did not appear out of nowhere. The groundwork was laid long before he took office, by decisions and patterns that reshaped how power, rights, information, and accountability functioned. The Democracy Clock simply measures where that long history left the country at the moment he took the oath again \'97 and why the next fifty-two weeks matter so profoundly.}