{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0\stshfdbch0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman{\*\falt Palatino};}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\stylesheet {\s0 Normal;}}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
{\info
{\author }
{\creatim\yr2025\mo12\dy22\hr12\min40\sec37\timesinceref788064037}
{\revtim\yr2025\mo12\dy30\hr8\min56\sec1\timesinceref788741761}}\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26 \cf0 Week 3: Systems as Spoils\
In Trump\'92s third week back in office, executive power fused with private wealth, hollowing out oversight while courts and unions fought rearguard actions.\
The third week of Trump\'92s second term did not hinge on a single spectacular order or televised clash. Its shape emerged instead from the way power moved inside the state: who could spend, who could investigate, who could speak, and who could be erased from the record. The pattern was one of fusion\'97between executive authority and private wealth, between domestic law and foreign policy, between information systems and political control. What had been signaled in earlier weeks as intent now began to harden into structure.\
At the close of Week 2 the Democracy Clock stood at 7:45 p.m. By the end of Week 3 it read 7:46 p.m., a net shift of one minute. The numerical change was small, but it captured a week in which the presidency tested the outer edges of its reach over money, borders, and memory, and found that many of those edges could be pushed back. Courts, unions, and states won important injunctions and partial rollbacks. Yet the center of gravity moved toward a presidency that could freeze aid, purge watchdogs, and hand core systems to private allies faster than any check could fully reverse.\
The week opened with a shock to the global aid system. Trump ordered a 90\uc0\u8209 day freeze on most foreign assistance, including roughly $60 billion in USAID funding, and moved to fold USAID into the State Department. Staff were locked out of their own headquarters while the agency\'92s website and social media went dark. The move concentrated control over humanitarian aid in the White House and State, sidelining an institution whose value had long rested on a degree of professional distance from day\u8209 to\u8209 day politics. At the same time, a separate executive order attempted to freeze a vast swath of federal grants, loans, and payments, testing whether the president could, in effect, impound money Congress had already appropriated.\
Those domestic moves were paired with a new use of emergency powers in trade. Trump invoked national emergency statutes to impose sweeping tariffs on imports from Canada, Mexico, and China, citing opioids and migration as justifications. Business groups warned of price spikes and supply\uc0\u8209 chain disruption. The U.S. Postal Service briefly halted parcels from China and Hong Kong before restoring service, a small but telling sign of how quickly routine commerce could be disrupted when emergency framing was applied to trade. Regulatory agencies, under a White House freeze, delayed environmental and health rules, extending comment periods and pushing back effective dates. On paper, process remained. In practice, the president\'92s reading of \'93emergency\'94 now reached deep into ordinary economic life.\
Abroad, the administration signaled a sharp break with multilateral norms. Trump announced plans for the United States to \'93take over and develop\'94 the Gaza Strip, a proposal widely described as a blueprint for ethnic cleansing. He threatened to \'93take back\'94 the Panama Canal or take unspecified powerful action, invoking coercive options against a treaty partner. He kept \'93all options on the table\'94 against Mexican drug cartels after designating them terrorist organizations, normalizing talk of cross\uc0\u8209 border military strikes. These statements were not yet operations, but they pulled the language of occupation and force into the center of U.S. foreign policy.\
At the same time, the White House turned away from international legal and human\uc0\u8209 rights bodies. Trump ordered sanctions on International Criminal Court officials over investigations touching U.S. and Israeli personnel, using national emergency powers to shield allies from external accountability. He withdrew the United States from the UN Human Rights Council and UNRWA and ordered a review of support for international organizations more broadly. Aid to South Africa was halted, and the country was added to a de facto enemies list over disputed land policies, while a companion order promoted resettlement of Afrikaner farmers in the United States. Foreign assistance and threat designations were now openly tied to racially charged narratives and regime preferences, rather than to stable treaty or rights frameworks.\
If foreign policy showed the outward reach of executive power, the Justice Department and FBI revealed how law itself was being bent inward. Acting leaders at DOJ ordered the firing of prosecutors and sought lists of FBI agents who had worked on cases involving Trump and the January 6 attack. DOJ withdrew prosecutors from election\uc0\u8209 fraud cases involving Republican lawmakers, signaling that some officeholders would no longer face the same scrutiny as others. Rank\u8209 and\u8209 file FBI employees responded by suing to block the release of their names, turning to the courts to protect themselves from retaliation by their own department. The stakes were personal and immediate.\
These personnel moves were framed by a new narrative: that prior investigations were themselves abuses. Pam Bondi\'92s confirmation as attorney general, over unified Democratic opposition, cemented that shift. Bondi launched a Weaponization Working Group to review prosecutions of Trump and January 6 cases, while Trump ordered DOJ to produce a report on the \'93weaponization of the federal government,\'94 explicitly including special counsel matters. At the same time, Trump issued blanket pardons for more than 1,500 January 6 participants, signaling that violence on his behalf would be forgiven. DOJ scaled back civil\uc0\u8209 rights enforcement and halted consent decrees in cities like Louisville and Minneapolis, while reinstating the federal death penalty and prioritizing certain capital cases. The state\'92s harshest tools were revived even as accountability for allies was withdrawn.\
Oversight bodies that might have checked these shifts were themselves cut down. Trump removed inspectors general from at least twelve major agencies in a single sweep, sharply weakening internal watchdog capacity. He attempted to oust Federal Election Commission chair Ellen Weintraub while complaints involving his own conduct were pending, threatening the independence of the agency charged with enforcing campaign\uc0\u8209 finance law. DOJ dismantled foreign bribery and kleptocracy units and scaled back enforcement of foreign lobbying and white\u8209 collar crime, easing pressure on transnational corruption networks. Efforts to remove members of the National Labor Relations Board left that body\'92s quorum in doubt, prompting lawsuits from former officials. Courts responded with a series of injunctions\'97blocking the grants freeze, pausing the birthright\u8209 citizenship order, halting trans prisoner transfers, and extending the deadline on a coercive federal\u8209 worker buyout\'97but these were defensive actions against a broad campaign to turn law enforcement into a shield for the regime.\
Beneath these headline moves, the state\'92s administrative \'93plumbing\'94 was being handed to a small, private network. Through a series of decisions by Trump and Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent, Elon Musk\'92s DOGE team gained access and partial control over Treasury payment systems that disburse more than $5 trillion annually. A DOGE\uc0\u8209 aligned figure was installed over federal payment operations after a career official was forced out. An executive\u8209 order\u8209 driven outage in the National Science Foundation\'92s payment gateway halted grant funding to scientists and nonprofits, demonstrating how control over payment infrastructure could be used to pressure research and civil society.\
DOGE\'92s reach extended beyond Treasury. At the Office of Personnel Management and the Small Business Administration, Musk associates obtained extensive access to federal HR and small\uc0\u8209 business data systems, and an unvetted server was installed outside normal procurement and privacy review. Millions of employees and entrepreneurs were exposed to new privacy risks. A mass \'93deferred\u8209 resignation\'94 program, promoted through government email lists, offered federal workers paid time off in exchange for future resignations, but the fine print allowed agencies to require work, deny rescission, and bar legal recourse. The effect was to encourage exits and weaken job security, while giving managers a tool to thin out perceived opponents.\
Regulatory gatekeeping shifted in parallel. At the Securities and Exchange Commission, staff lawyers were told to obtain political approval before opening investigations, centralizing enforcement decisions in the hands of appointees. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau paused rules that would have kept medical debt off credit reports, preserving leverage for debt collectors and credit bureaus. At the Environmental Protection Agency and Interior, leadership drawn from industry lobbyists and attorneys moved to delay or undo rules on toxic chemicals, PFAS, and national monuments, while more than 160 environmental\uc0\u8209 justice employees were placed on leave. The agencies\'92 formal missions did not change, but their capacity to act in the public interest was hollowed out.\
DOGE\'92s IT access reached into the information systems that underpinned these agencies. Musk operatives accessed and, in some cases, altered data at NOAA, CMS, the Department of Education, and USAID. Climate data disappeared from NOAA databases. Student\uc0\u8209 aid and health\u8209 care systems were exposed to unvetted actors. USAID\'92s online presence vanished during the attempted merger and leadership purge. Treasury granted DOGE read\u8209 only access to coded taxpayer and payment data, prompting privacy lawsuits and protests from unions. Under legal pressure, the administration proposed narrowing DOGE\'92s access to some Treasury systems, excluding Musk himself, but the basic precedent\'97that a private team could be embedded inside core state infrastructure\'97remained.\
The same logic of control and exclusion played out in the treatment of civil servants and inclusion frameworks. At USAID, State, Education, EPA, and other agencies, staff who resisted unauthorized access or worked on DEI and environmental justice were placed on administrative leave, offered buyouts, or had their contracts terminated. USAID staff were physically barred from their building while Musk\'92s shutdown attempt received presidential backing. Across government, pronouns were banned from email signatures and DEI and affinity groups were disbanded, cutting off support structures for LGBTQ+ and minority employees. Trump revoked a 60\uc0\u8209 year\u8209 old equal\u8209 opportunity order and contractor nondiscrimination rules, weakening protections for minorities and small businesses that relied on federal work.\
Executive orders went further, targeting DEI programs and gender\uc0\u8209 affirming care across federal institutions. Agencies were told to dismantle diversity initiatives and cut funding to hospitals providing gender\u8209 affirming care to youth. The Centers for Disease Control and other health agencies removed or altered webpages on contraception, gender\u8209 affirming care, STIs, and HIV to comply. In the military, transgender service members were purged and DEI\u8209 related clubs at West Point were disbanded. In the prison system, an order directed that trans women be medically detransitioned and moved to men\'92s facilities, until courts intervened. These moves did not simply change policy; they redrew the boundaries of who could serve, who could be safe, and whose identity the state would recognize.\
Immigration and citizenship policy became another arena where executive power and identity hierarchy met. An order effectively suspended U.S. asylum law, routing up to 30,000 migrants to detention at Guant\'e1namo Bay. Humanitarian protections for hundreds of thousands of immigrants from Venezuela, Cuba, Haiti, and Nicaragua were revoked or undermined, exposing them to deportation and instability. Migrant detention operations at Guant\'e1namo expanded, placing immigration enforcement further from routine judicial oversight. Domestically, ICE conducted aggressive raids in farm communities while manipulating public information about enforcement: old deportation press releases were re\uc0\u8209 dated so they would appear current in search results, gaming Google to project a constant sense of crackdown.\
At the level of status itself, Trump attempted to end birthright citizenship for children of undocumented immigrants by executive order, challenging the 14th Amendment\'92s guarantee. Courts quickly enjoined enforcement, but the move signaled a willingness to test constitutional limits on who counts as a citizen. Attorney General Bondi ordered an end to federal funding for sanctuary jurisdictions and sued Chicago and Illinois over their sanctuary laws, using fiscal and legal tools to punish localities that limited cooperation with federal crackdowns. States added their own layers: North Carolina criminalized road\uc0\u8209 blocking and mask\u8209 wearing at protests, while Louisiana used emergency powers and police threat to forcibly relocate unhoused people to an unheated warehouse, restricting press access. In each case, law and logistics were used to narrow who could move, speak, or simply exist without fear.\
Civil and human rights more broadly were redrawn along lines of gender, race, religion, and punishment. An executive order banned trans women and girls from women\'92s sports and conditioned visas on compliance, extending domestic culture\uc0\u8209 war rules into immigration decisions. A separate order on antisemitism directed agencies to explore deporting foreign student protesters, linking campus speech to immigration enforcement. At the same time, Trump created a DOJ\u8209 led task force and a White House Faith Office to combat perceived anti\u8209 Christian bias, embedding a favored religious identity into enforcement and advisory structures. DOJ retreated from civil\u8209 rights enforcement and police\u8209 reform agreements, while the federal death penalty was reinstated and tied, in part, to cases involving police killings. Another order linked seized oligarch assets to funding new detention facilities, blending punitive foreign policy with domestic carceral expansion.\
On the ground, these shifts translated into concrete harms and fears. Wyoming Republicans advanced a bill redefining health care in ways that could broadly restrict abortion and other treatments. California community leaders demanded investigation into delayed wildfire evacuation orders that devastated a Black neighborhood, raising questions about racial inequities in disaster response. Courts heard class\uc0\u8209 action claims over abuse of incarcerated women by a prison gynecologist and ruled on racial bias in death sentencing. These cases showed that litigation could still surface and sometimes remedy structural discrimination, even as the federal executive moved in the opposite direction.\
Information itself became a contested field. Health agencies removed or sanitized public\uc0\u8209 health guidance on sensitive topics. DOGE\'92s access to NOAA, CMS, Education, and USAID systems allowed private actors to reshape or erase official records, including climate data. An HHS report on private equity\'92s harms in health care briefly appeared, then its news release vanished from the agency\'92s site. ICE\'92s manipulation of press\u8209 release timestamps distorted the public record of enforcement. The Pentagon introduced a media rotation program that replaced major outlets with ideologically aligned or nontraditional ones like OANN and Breitbart in limited press spaces, shifting access toward friendlier media.\
Regulators and the White House applied pressure to specific outlets. The FCC canceled POLITICO subscriptions, reinstated a long\uc0\u8209 dormant news\u8209 distortion complaint, and opened an investigation into a local station\'92s immigration reporting. Trump publicly called for CBS and 60 Minutes to be terminated over editing of a Kamala Harris interview, attacking press freedom norms. Lara Trump moved from RNC leadership to hosting a Fox News weekend show, underscoring the revolving door between partisan politics and influential media. On social platforms, Musk used control of X to delete a post and suspend an account that listed DOGE employees, framing it as criminal leaking. DOGE and Treasury used federal email lists to push the deferred\u8209 resignation offer to all civil servants. The CIA sent a list of recent hires, including analysts, to the White House via unclassified email, exposing sensitive personnel to potential targeting. Across these episodes, state and private levers combined to curate what the public could see and to protect those aligned with the regime.\
Against this backdrop, resistance did not disappear. Federal judges in multiple districts blocked or paused some of the most aggressive executive actions: the grants freeze, the birthright\uc0\u8209 citizenship order, the trans prisoner transfer policy, and the deadline on the federal\u8209 worker buyout. Courts heard challenges to the asylum suspension and USAID cuts, testing whether the executive could unilaterally rewrite statutory humanitarian obligations. FBI agents, employee unions, and former labor officials sued to restrict DOGE\'92s database access, contest the deferred\u8209 resignation scheme, and challenge removals from the National Labor Relations Board. In North Carolina, a lower\u8209 court attempt to overturn a state supreme court election by discarding tens of thousands of votes drew scrutiny and appeals, highlighting the stakes for judicial independence.\
States and legislators also moved. California appropriated $50 million to fund litigation against federal policies and to support immigrants with legal services, positioning itself as an institutional counterweight on climate, immigration, and civil rights. Senate Democrats and House leaders used filibusters, all\uc0\u8209 night protests, and bills like the ELON MUSK Act to oppose Russell Vought\'92s budget role and Musk\'92s influence over Treasury. Local activists organized demonstrations against cabinet nominees and DOGE\'92s reach. Federal election and assistance commissions continued to hold public meetings under the Sunshine Act, and agencies published environmental impact statements that preserved formal channels for public input. Texas expanded solar power installations, and global markets shifted solar exports toward developing countries, hinting at economic currents that did not run through Washington.\
These efforts won real, if partial, victories. DOGE\'92s access to some Treasury systems was narrowed. Immigration court support programs saw funding restored after lawsuits. Some vulnerable groups gained relief through court rulings on racial bias and abuse. Yet the scale and speed of federal consolidation outpaced these checks. Inspectors general remained fired. Mass pardons for January 6 participants stood. DOGE\'92s presence inside the state\'92s core systems persisted. The week\'92s resistance was fragmented and reactive, while the administration\'92s moves were coordinated and structural.\
Crony capitalism threaded through many of these developments. Trump family members expanded ventures in conservative venture capital, crypto, and foreign\uc0\u8209 funded private equity, including a Saudi\u8209 backed fund and joint projects with controversial investors. Donald Trump Jr.\'92s role at 1789 Capital positioned him to steer capital toward ideologically aligned firms. A senior DOJ nominee held undisclosed multimillion\u8209 dollar holdings linked to a Chinese company accused of forced labor, raising conflict\u8209 of\u8209 interest concerns at the heart of law enforcement. Sovereign wealth fund orders directed Treasury and Commerce to design a vehicle that could buy high\u8209 profile assets like TikTok, concentrating large pools of public capital under presidential influence. Industry\u8209 aligned EPA leadership, regulatory rollbacks, and pauses or suppression of consumer\u8209 protective rules and reports all pointed in the same direction: public resources and legal frameworks bending toward the interests of those closest to power.\
What to watch from this week\'92s record are the cases and reviews already in motion. Federal courts have before them challenges to the asylum suspension, USAID dismantling, DOGE\'92s access to core systems, and the attempted birthright\uc0\u8209 citizenship order. The Supreme Court is considering a case that could revive the nondelegation doctrine and sharply limit agency authority. State\u8209 funded litigation, especially from California, is queued up against immigration and climate moves. The outcomes of these proceedings will determine how far the executive\'96oligarch nexus can extend its reach before running into hard legal limits.\
In the arc of Trump\'92s second term, Week 3 deepened the pattern of consolidation without open rupture. Executive orders reached into foreign aid, trade, asylum, and citizenship. Oversight bodies were thinned or removed. The civil service and regulatory agencies were reengineered around loyalty and private access. Information systems were treated as assets to be curated, not as public records to be preserved. Courts, unions, states, and civil society still had the capacity to slow and sometimes block these moves, but they did so case by case, often after the fact. The week\'92s small forward movement on the Democracy Clock reflects that tension: formal structures endured, yet the cost of relying on them rose, and the space in which they could operate narrowed.\
}