{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0\stshfdbch0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman{\*\falt Palatino};}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\stylesheet {\s0 Normal;}}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
{\info
{\author }
{\creatim\yr2025\mo12\dy24\hr15\min27\sec30\timesinceref788246850}
{\revtim\yr2025\mo12\dy30\hr8\min56\sec1\timesinceref788741761}}\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26 \cf0 Week 38: Shutdown as Weaponry\
In a week of near-still clock hands, immigration crackdowns, shutdown tactics, and politicized prosecutions quietly tightened executive power and thinned democratic constraint.\
The thirty-eighth week of Trump\'92s second term unfolded as pressure applied from many directions at once. Immigration raids, shutdown tactics, prosecutions, and propaganda did not arrive as a single shock. They came as parallel streams, each framed as routine governance, each shifting where power sat and how it could be used. The pattern was not new, but it was more confident: law bent toward loyalty, force moved into civil space, and the cost of resistance rose another notch.\
At the close of Week 37, the Democracy Clock stood at 8:08 p.m. It ended Week 38 at the same public time, with only a fractional movement of a tenth of a minute. The hands did not jump, but they did not rest. The small numerical shift captured a deepening of trends already in motion rather than a fresh rupture: executive power stretched further, law enforcement became more partisan, and oversight thinned, even as governors, judges, and civil society pushed back in visible but limited ways. The clock held because the system still contained pockets of resistance, yet the direction of travel remained toward concentration of power and erosion of constraint.\
The most vivid scenes came from Chicago and Portland, where immigration enforcement became the pretext for a domestic show of force. In Chicago, federal agents used tear gas, pepper balls, and aggressive tactics against protesters and journalists at immigration demonstrations, blurring the line between crowd control and battlefield conduct. Reports that agents made false 911 calls and that a woman, Marimar Martinez, was shot during an operation raised basic questions about honesty and proportionality in federal policing. These were not isolated missteps. They were part of a broader decision to treat dissent and migration as security threats warranting militarized response.\
Into that environment, the White House ordered 300 Illinois National Guard troops into Chicago to support immigration enforcement, and Texas Governor Greg Abbott sent his own Guard units into Illinois and Oregon at federal request. What had once been state-controlled forces, used sparingly for disasters or short-term emergencies, were now instruments in a federal campaign centered on Democratic-led cities. The deployments turned urban neighborhoods into test beds for how far the president could push military presence in civil spaces over the objections of local leaders.\
Courts and governors did not accept this quietly. In Oregon, U.S. District Judge Karin Immergut issued orders blocking federalization and deployment of National Guard troops to Portland, reinforcing that the president\'92s authority over state forces had limits. California\'92s governor and Oregon officials sued to stop California Guard units from being sent into Portland, and an appeals court crafted a compromise: federalization of Oregon Guard members could proceed, but they could not be deployed into Portland itself. In Chicago, Judge April Perry\'92s rulings on Guard deployments shifted over the week, reflecting active judicial scrutiny of federal claims that unrest amounted to \'93rebellion\'94 while still leaving some room for executive maneuver.\
On the ground, local officials tried to reclaim space for civil life. Chicago\'92s mayor signed executive orders barring ICE from using city-owned property for operations, asserting municipal authority to shield residents from federal raids. Protesters organized a large, peaceful march that shut down Michigan Avenue, showing that mass assembly was still possible even under heavy federal presence. Journalists and unions filed lawsuits over the use of extreme force at protests, and Judge Sara Ellis issued a preliminary injunction in northern Illinois limiting federal agents\'92 use of crowd-control weapons and requiring them to identify themselves, a direct judicial check on anonymous, militarized policing.\
Yet even as these constraints were asserted, the enforcement machine kept running while its internal brakes were loosened. DHS kept most ICE operations fully staffed during the shutdown but furloughed the Office of Detention Oversight, prioritizing coercion over inspection. The controversial Alligator Alcatraz detention facility in Florida remained open despite due process concerns and limited access to counsel, with appeals judges allowing operations to continue while litigation over attorney access played out. FEMA\'92s decision to reimburse Florida more than $600 million for that complex effectively federalized its financial base, making it harder to argue that the facility lay outside federal responsibility. Governors from Illinois and California urged their peers to oppose federal troop deployments and even threatened to leave the National Governors Association, while a Republican governor in Oklahoma publicly criticized Texas\'92s decision to send Guard troops into Illinois. The resistance was real, but the structure of enforcement\'97troops on the streets, detention centers funded, oversight furloughed\'97remained largely intact.\
Beyond the city streets, senior officials worked to widen the legal frame for using force, at home and abroad. The Department of Justice issued a memo treating suspected drug-trafficking boats as part of an armed conflict, effectively recasting traffickers as enemy combatants. On that theory, Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth ordered a strike on a boat off Venezuela, stretching the legal basis for lethal action without fresh congressional authorization. Reports that a separate strike mistakenly hit a Colombian vessel underscored the risks of highly personalized command over force: a misidentification at the top could trigger an international incident with little transparency about how the decision had been made.\
The legal profession took notice. The New York City Bar Association condemned the Venezuelan boat strikes as illegal summary executions and urged Congress to reassert its war powers. Their statement did not halt operations, but it documented a professional judgment that the executive was moving beyond the bounds of law. Inside the White House, aides led by Stephen Miller discussed invoking the Insurrection Act to send troops into U.S. cities, and Miller publicly claimed that the president held plenary authority to deploy the military against domestic unrest. These assertions did not yet produce a formal Insurrection Act order, but they normalized the idea that protest and disorder could be treated as war, with the president as sole decider.\
Congress had an opportunity to narrow this authority and chose not to. The Senate voted against a measure that would have required presidents to seek congressional approval before using deadly force against drug cartels, preserving broad unilateral discretion for targeted killings. At the same time, the president hosted a roundtable on criminalizing flag burning, a form of speech long recognized as protected, and issued an ultimatum to Hamas to accept his Gaza peace plan by a fixed deadline. He also announced a large currency swap framework with Argentina shortly before its midterm elections. Each move tied security or economic tools to personal timelines and narratives, reinforcing a pattern in which the presidency, rather than institutions, set the terms for war, peace, and leverage.\
If force was being stretched at the edges, law at home was being bent at the center. The Justice Department under Attorney General Pam Bondi faced sharp questioning in Senate hearings over dismantled integrity units and politicized prosecutions. Senators pressed Bondi on why the Public Integrity Section had been stripped of staff and authority, why corruption probes had been dropped, and how her foreign-agent work for Qatar intersected with decisions that benefited Trump\'92s interests. At the same time, 282 former DOJ officials issued a public letter warning that the department\'92s integrity was being destroyed by court-order violations, targeted prosecutions, and the hollowing out of anti-corruption capacity.\
Concrete cases showed what this meant in practice. DOJ closed an investigation into border czar Tom Homan despite an undercover recording allegedly capturing a bribe offer tied to immigration enforcement contracts. Democracy Forward had to sue the FBI and DOJ under FOIA to obtain records about the case, and agencies still resisted disclosure. By contrast, U.S. Attorney Lindsey Halligan secured indictments of former FBI Director James Comey and New York Attorney General Letitia James, both prominent Trump critics, after career prosecutors had previously found no basis for charges or declined to proceed. The sequence\'97Durham\'92s earlier conclusion that Comey should not be charged, followed by a new indictment under different leadership\'97highlighted how prosecutorial outcomes could shift with politics rather than evidence.\
Inside the FBI, leadership fired or reassigned agents who had worked on Trump-related investigations, signaling that certain lines of inquiry carried career risk. The Civil Rights Division pressured Portland authorities over charges against conservative influencer Nick Sortor, with federal officials threatening to investigate local police for anti-conservative bias; the charges were then dropped. At the same time, the White House ordered a crackdown on alleged \'93leftwing terrorism\'94 targeting major Democratic donors and liberal groups, and DOJ planned a multi-agency investigation into liberal organizations\'92 finances. Donors like George Soros and Reid Hoffman were cast as potential terrorism financiers, blurring the line between political giving and violent extremism.\
Secrecy and selective transparency reinforced this weaponization. DOJ and the FBI released curated records from Special Counsel Jack Smith\'92s prior investigation into Trump, including subpoenas of Republican senators\'92 phone data, in ways that fed partisan narratives while leaving the broader evidentiary record opaque. Agencies failed to comply with FOIA requests about Homan\'92s alleged bribery, forcing litigation. In the separate but related Epstein files saga, Attorney General Bondi and FBI leadership withheld client records, allegedly ordered agents to flag references to Trump, and Congress blocked votes on the Epstein Files Transparency Act. House leaders kept the chamber in recess and delayed seating Representative\uc0\u8209 elect Adelita Grijalva, in part to avoid a transparency vote. The result was a system in which elite-linked cases were shielded from scrutiny while law enforcement tools were turned outward against opponents.\
The government shutdown became another instrument in this restructuring of power. The Office of Management and Budget, under Russ Vought, canceled energy and transportation projects in Democratic-led areas during the funding lapse and announced plans to use the shutdown to impose large cuts on infrastructure and climate initiatives associated with political opponents. The president openly framed the shutdown as an opportunity to slash \'93Democratic programs,\'94 making clear that control over federal operations was being used to punish disfavored constituencies rather than to manage a neutral budget.\
At the same time, OMB reinterpreted statutory back-pay protections for furloughed federal workers. Guidance memos cast doubt on whether all furloughed employees would receive back pay, and the administration quietly revised public guidance to narrow guarantees. The president floated the idea that not all furloughed workers should be made whole, signaling a willingness to use livelihoods as leverage. For rank-and-file employees, this turned a legal right into a political question. For the executive, it created a new tool: the ability to reward or punish segments of the civil service by how shutdown pain was distributed.\
Congress, which might have countered this, instead functioned as theater. The House and Senate repeatedly failed to pass funding bills, prolonging the shutdown\'92s impact on airports, national parks, and basic services. House Speaker Mike Johnson kept the chamber in recess during the crisis and delayed Grijalva\'92s swearing-in, limiting the body\'92s ability to vote on transparency or funding measures. Democrats introduced a Federal Worker Childcare Protection Act to reimburse shutdown-related childcare costs, a mitigation effort that underscored how the burden of political conflict fell on workers and families rather than on the officials driving the standoff. Meanwhile, enforcement arms like ICE stayed open, and detention inspectors were furloughed, deepening the asymmetry between coercion and oversight.\
The shutdown also intersected with longer-term policy shifts. The administration advanced plans to cut Affordable Care Act tax credits, Medicaid, and other social programs, moving costs onto lower-income households and deepening inequality. Officials explored selling portions of the federal student loan portfolio to private markets, which would shift borrowers from public to profit-driven oversight and reduce accountability in higher-education finance. In this way, a temporary funding crisis became a vehicle for permanent changes in who bore risk and who held power.\
Immigration and detention policy were reshaped at a structural level. The administration removed or transferred 139 immigration judges, disproportionately those with high asylum grant rates, signaling an effort to tilt adjudication against migrants. Deportations to African countries, including Eswatini, rose, reflecting a hardline approach with significant consequences for noncitizens\'92 security and family unity. The Alligator Alcatraz facility continued to operate despite reports of inhumane conditions and restricted legal access, now backed by substantial federal reimbursement. Oversight staff in the Office of Detention Oversight were furloughed while enforcement operations continued, leaving detainees more exposed.\
These institutional changes were mirrored in individual cases. Activists from the Global Sumud Flotilla, including Greta Thunberg, were deported amid reports of harsh detention conditions, suggesting that humanitarian actors and political protesters at the border would be treated as security problems rather than as rights-bearing individuals. A Rutgers professor and anti-fascism scholar, Mark Bray, was blocked from boarding an international flight after Trump\'92s threats against antifa-linked academics, hinting that travel and security tools could be used to constrain critical voices. Inside DHS, a liaison faced misconduct allegations involving a coerced hotel-room sharing arrangement, and the complainant feared retaliation, illustrating how politicized agencies left civil servants vulnerable when they sought redress.\
There were partial counterweights. U.S. District Judge Rudolph Contreras temporarily barred ICE from automatically detaining immigrant youths in adult facilities at age 18, enforcing prior protections. Federal courts, including the Supreme Court, rejected attempts to end birthright citizenship and declined Ghislaine Maxwell\'92s appeal, leaving some high-profile criminal judgments intact. But these rulings existed alongside the broader hardening of enforcement and the thinning of oversight, and they did not alter the trajectory of the system as a whole.\
As legal and administrative tools were turned inward, the president\'92s rhetoric turned outward against critics and opponents. Trump publicly called for the arrest of Illinois Governor J.B. Pritzker and Chicago Mayor Brandon Johnson over policy disagreements, using the threat of criminal process to intimidate elected officials. He demanded the removal of New York Attorney General Letitia James, who had pursued civil fraud cases against him, and soon afterward she was indicted on bank fraud and false statement charges widely viewed as politically motivated. Combined with Comey\'92s indictment, these actions sent a clear signal: independent legal actors who challenged the president could face federal prosecution.\
The circle of targets widened beyond officeholders. The administration ordered a crackdown on alleged \'93leftwing terrorism,\'94 directing federal law enforcement to investigate major opposition donors and liberal organizations. House Republican leaders and the White House branded upcoming \'93No Kings\'94 protests as terrorism or \'93hate America\'94 rallies, equating anti-authoritarian demonstrations with support for foreign enemies. Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton announced arrests and charges against a midwife and others under strict abortion laws, while federal courts handled trials of anti-abortion activists accused of invading clinics. Across these domains, dissenting activity\'97whether reproductive health work, protest, or philanthropy\'97was framed as suspect, if not criminal.\
Security tools were used to monitor and discipline critics within the state itself. The Pentagon investigated nearly 300 employees for online comments critical of conservative activist Charlie Kirk, blurring the line between private speech and punishable conduct. New restrictions on defense reporters and leak crackdowns raised the stakes for those who might expose internal disagreements or abuses. The Pentagon Press Association warned that the new rules could criminalize routine journalism. In this climate, Trump\'92s attacks on media figures like Rev. Al Sharpton, NBC, and Comcast\'92s chair, coupled with hints at license reviews, carried more than symbolic weight; they suggested that regulatory power could be turned against disfavored outlets.\
Information control and symbolic politics tied these strands together. The White House altered the process for selecting reporters in the press corps, risking a tilt toward friendlier outlets and fewer adversarial questions. At the Pentagon, leak crackdowns and new restrictions on reporters tightened secrecy around military policy. At the same time, DOJ and OMB quietly revised public guidance on federal worker back pay and released selective records from Jack Smith\'92s investigation, shaping what the public could see and when. The administration used overlapping crises\'97the shutdown, troop deployments, vaccine-policy shifts, and tariff announcements\'97to create a dense environment in which each move was harder to scrutinize.\
Disinformation came from the top. Trump posted a video depicting political opponents as zombies, a piece of presidential propaganda that dehumanized rivals and cast politics as a struggle against monstrous enemies. He repeated a debunked claim that he had warned about Osama bin Laden before 9/11, attempting to rewrite his own record. From the Cabinet table, he and HHS Secretary Robert F. Kennedy Jr. promoted disproven links between vaccines and autism and pursued studies to \'93prove\'94 them, even as the CDC altered childhood immunization schedules and removed certain combined vaccine recommendations. Six former surgeons general publicly condemned RFK Jr.\'92s mismanagement and misinformation, warning that public health was being steered away from evidence-based practice.\
The administration also worked to fix a particular story of the nation in law and symbol. Trump formalized Columbus Day as a national holiday on the second Monday of October, elevating a celebratory narrative of conquest at a time when many communities had moved toward Indigenous Peoples\'92 Day. Treasury advanced plans to mint a dollar coin featuring Trump\'92s image while he remained in office, bending statutory and customary limits on currency design. The White House criticized the Nobel Committee for awarding the Peace Prize to Venezuelan opposition leader Mar\'eda Corina Machado instead of Trump, framing an independent international body as biased. An announcement of a Qatari Air Force base in Idaho, against the backdrop of Trump\'92s business ties to Qatar, raised questions about how strategic narratives and alliances were shaped by private interests as well as policy.\
Against this backdrop, pockets of institutional and civic resistance stood out, not because they reversed the week\'92s movement, but because they showed that the system had not yet fully yielded. State and local officials ordered reviews of federal raids, challenged voter-file seizures, and sued to block Guard deployments. Judges limited the use of force at protests, enforced protections for immigrant youths, and required the Pentagon to disclose information about Elon Musk\'92s security clearances. Professional associations\'97from the New York City Bar to the Pentagon Press Association and the former surgeons general\'97issued public warnings about executive overreach and misinformation. Civil-society groups like Democracy Forward turned to FOIA litigation to pry loose records that agencies refused to release.\
These acts of resistance were real, but they were reactive and fragmented. They came after troops had been deployed, after prosecutions had been launched, after guidance had been quietly changed. They often depended on individuals willing to bear personal risk: judges whose homes were targeted after blocking voter-file releases, whistleblowers whose allegations about bribery or record-handling were met with closed investigations and stonewalling, civil servants who feared retaliation for reporting misconduct. The moral floor for those in power\'97character, ethics, restraint, truthfulness, good faith, stewardship\'97continued to erode, while the burden of upholding democratic norms shifted onto those with less formal authority.\
In economic policy, the presidency\'92s reach extended into markets and corporate decisions in ways that blurred public and private interests. The administration announced or imposed major new tariffs on Chinese goods and Italian pasta, triggering market volatility and reshaping trade relationships. The Commerce Department\'92s 92 percent tariffs on Italian pasta manufacturers illustrated how trade remedies could be used to reorder international markets. At the same time, the White House struck a most-favored-nation drug-pricing deal with AstraZeneca tied to relief from threatened tariffs, centralizing complex pricing decisions in direct bargaining between the president and a single firm. Abroad, a large currency swap framework with Argentina, timed just before its midterm elections, showed how financial tools under executive control could influence foreign democratic outcomes.\
Viewed together, Week 38 did not introduce a new method of rule. It deepened existing ones. Law was used more openly as a weapon against critics and a shield for allies. Military and paramilitary force moved further into domestic life under the banners of immigration control and public safety. The shutdown, once a sign of legislative failure, became a deliberate tool to restructure programs and weaken the civil service. Information was curated, delayed, or distorted to support these moves, while symbols and holidays were reshaped to center the leader and a narrow national story.\
The Democracy Clock\'92s near-stillness in public time masked this accumulation. The week did not bring a single break with the past so much as a tightening of the pattern: authority widened through interpretation, oversight thinned through delay, and dissent was recast as disorder or treason. Rights and procedures remained on paper, but using them demanded more persistence and carried greater cost. Whether the scattered acts of resistance recorded this week can harden into durable checks, or whether they will be absorbed into the new normal, remained an open question as the week closed.\
}