{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26 \cf0 Week 31 consolidates a pattern: power is no longer merely drifting toward the executive; it is being pulled there with design. Washington, D.C. edges toward occupation, with federalized police, armed National Guard patrols, and military lawyers embedded as prosecutors. Similar blurring of civil\'96military lines appears in Los Angeles and in Pentagon support for immigration crackdowns. Law is repurposed to shield allies and punish critics, from mass January 6 pardons and threats over Tina Peters to raids on John Bolton and politicized grand juries. Immigration and visa systems become vast ideological filters, while ICE and CBP operate with growing impunity. Simultaneously, gerrymanders in Texas and Florida, a partisan counter\uc0\u8209 map in California, and new voting barriers tighten control over representation. The administration moves to capture statistics, museums, schools, and unions, narrowing labor and civic space. Courts, civil servants, and protesters still win important rulings and concessions, but their victories slow rather than reverse the drift. The Democracy Clock nudges forward by 0.1 minutes, reflecting deepening erosion without a single new rupture.\
}