{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 .SFNS-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red14\green14\blue14;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c6700\c6700\c6700;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf2 Every democracy depends on a shared understanding of what is real. Citizens can disagree about policy, values, and priorities, but they cannot govern themselves if they cannot trust that basic facts are discoverable, verifiable, and not constantly manipulated by those in power. When the government itself blurs that line\'97closing down independent sources of information, punishing those who document its actions, or granting access only to compliant outlets\'97it does more than inconvenience reporters. It erodes the quiet foundation under every democratic structure: the belief that the public can know enough about what is being done in its name to give or withhold consent.\
\
Trust is not nostalgia for a simpler media age. It is a civic infrastructure built from transparency, independent journalism, and a public able to navigate complex information systems. It allows a diverse country to inhabit enough of a shared reality to make choices together. Over the past year, that infrastructure has been strained by decisions that narrow the channels through which citizens can see their government. International broadcasters that once carried independent American reporting to the world have been dismantled or defunded. Journalists covering law enforcement have been arrested, then released without charges. Reporters who covered the Pentagon for decades have turned in their badges rather than sign away their independence. These events are signals\'97flashpoints where the struggle over truth moves from argument into policy.\
\
The elimination of the U.S. Agency for Global Media and the shutdown of Voice of America marked a profound shift in how the United States speaks to the world and, indirectly, to itself. For more than eighty years, government-funded but editorially independent broadcasters like VOA, Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty, and Radio Free Asia provided news to audiences in closed or fragile societies. When funding was cut, contracts canceled, and more than a thousand journalists were locked out and placed on leave, the message was clear: the current leadership no longer valued arms-length journalism as part of America\'92s public face. Lawsuits followed as broadcasters argued that the cuts violated constitutional and statutory protections. But the damage to trust was immediate. If a democracy is willing to silence its own journalists abroad, why should citizens at home assume that it will respect independent reporting for long?\
\
The same tension appeared on domestic ground. In Chicago, a television producer filming an immigration raid was taken to the pavement by masked agents, arrested, and then released without charges. Her alleged offense was documenting a public operation in a public place. A federal judge quickly issued a temporary restraining order, barring agents from arresting or using force against journalists absent probable cause. The order underscored what should never have been in doubt: recording the actions of law enforcement is not a privilege granted by the state; it is a core democratic right. Yet the incident\'97and the need for an emergency court order\'97sent a warning. When those who point cameras at power are treated as suspects, others will think twice before bearing witness.\
\
Around the Pentagon, the struggle over access and independence unfolded in a different way. New media guidelines demanded that reporters pledge not to seek \'93unauthorized\'94 information and accept restrictions that would have made standard investigative practices risky. Major news organizations refused. They turned in their badges rather than accept rules they believed violated the First Amendment and threatened sources. For the first time in modern history, the building that houses the world\'92s most powerful military lost its in-house press corps not because reporters lost interest, but because they were asked to trade independence for proximity. When the president publicly endorsed the restrictions as \'93common sense,\'94 the issue ceased to be an internal dispute over credentialing. It became a national question about whether the government sees a free press as an asset to be protected or a problem to be managed.\
\
These episodes are not isolated missteps. Together, they describe a pattern in which those in power seek to narrow the number of voices that can report on them, constrain the conditions under which reporting occurs, and punish those who insist on remaining independent. In the framework of democratic repair, trust is the promise that government can be seen, heard, and questioned by the people it serves. It is the imperative that information flows outward rather than only inward, and the deliverable of a public square in which citizens can rely on more than official narratives. When broadcasters are shuttered, journalists detained, and access conditioned on compliance, that promise, imperative, and deliverable all come under strain.\
\
The path forward begins with reaffirming the independence of public-interest media. State-funded outlets like VOA and RFE/RL should have their editorial autonomy written into law and shielded from partisan defunding. Governance structures should insulate them from direct political interference, with boards and leadership chosen for professional qualifications and public trust rather than loyalty to current officeholders. Funding decisions should be tied to long-term mandates approved by Congress, not short-term preferences. When foreign audiences see that American international broadcasters can criticize the U.S. government as freely as they scrutinize others, it strengthens both external credibility and internal confidence that the country still values truth over flattery.\
\
Domestically, reforms must protect journalists wherever they cover the state\'92s use of power. Clear federal standards should affirm that documenting law enforcement operations in public spaces is presumptively lawful and that arrests of journalists require genuine probable cause, not annoyance or embarrassment. Court orders like the one issued in Chicago should not be emergency exceptions; they should reflect standing policy. Agencies that repeatedly violate these rules should face consequences, including loss of discretionary funds or independent investigations. Press freedom cannot depend on whether a particular judge happens to be available to issue a restraining order. It must be built into the operating instructions of every agency that wields force.\
\
The relationship between the press and national security institutions deserves particular care. Rather than imposing loyalty pledges, the Pentagon and other security agencies should work with independent press associations to craft access rules that balance legitimate secrecy needs with the public\'92s right to know. Guidelines should be transparent, narrowly tailored, and subject to regular review. Journalists should not be made vulnerable to expulsion or prosecution simply for doing the work of asking hard questions and cultivating sources. In a democracy, secrecy is the exception that requires justification, not the default. When reporters must choose between access and integrity, the system has already tilted too far.\
\
Trust, however, does not rest solely on legal protections for journalists. It also requires a public capable of navigating information that is fragmented, fast-moving, and sometimes deliberately distorted. The decisions to shutter international broadcasters, arrest a local producer, or pressure defense reporters all exploit vulnerabilities in civic literacy. When people do not understand the role of independent media, they are more easily persuaded that reporters are enemies rather than guardians of the public interest. When they lack the tools to distinguish verified reporting from propaganda, they become more vulnerable to those who offer pleasing stories over accurate ones.\
\
That is why rebuilding trust must include a renewed commitment to civic and media literacy. Schools should teach not only the structure of government, but also how journalism works: how sources are verified, why editorial independence matters, and what rights reporters and citizens share. Adult education programs, community colleges, and libraries can offer practical workshops on recognizing manipulation, evaluating sources, and understanding how algorithms shape what people see. These efforts do not tell citizens what to think. They equip them to think more clearly about who is trying to influence them and why.\
\
Within the broader arc of repair, strengthening trust in information is what allows the rest of the democratic agenda to take root. Reforms to elections, institutions, or economic structures will falter if people do not believe what they are told about their design or impact. When independent media is protected, when government actions are visible and explainable, and when citizens have the skills to interpret what they see, the distance between government and governed narrows. Officials know they will be watched. Journalists know they can work without fear of retaliation. Citizens know they can find out what is really happening, even when leaders would prefer otherwise.\
\
For the reader, these issues may seem remote, centered in broadcasting agencies, courtrooms, or Pentagon corridors. Yet their effects are close. When international broadcasters are silenced, authoritarian states gain more room to define what \'93America\'94 means. When a local television producer is tackled for filming a raid, others think twice before documenting abuses in their own neighborhoods. When defense reporters return their badges rather than sign restrictive agreements, coverage of war, spending, and military culture becomes thinner and more dependent on official framing. Over time, the space in which ordinary people can see and evaluate power shrinks, and the stories they receive become more curated and less contested.\
\
The year ahead offers a chance to reverse that narrowing. Voters can look for leaders who defend press freedom not only in principle but in concrete policies: restoring and protecting independent public media, rejecting punitive restrictions on reporters, and investing in civic literacy from schools to senior centers. Candidates can commit to transparency as a governing habit: holding regular, unscripted briefings; protecting whistleblowers; and resisting the temptation to punish those who document their actions. Communities can support local journalism, demand openness from institutions, and stand with those who face retaliation for telling uncomfortable truths.\
\
Trust does not return on its own. It must be rebuilt through choices that favor openness over secrecy, independence over control, and education over manipulation. A democracy worthy of its name treats information as a public good, not a private asset. When citizens can see clearly, when journalists can report freely, and when the government expects to be questioned rather than praised, the republic stands on firmer ground. Rebuilding trust in information is not about restoring an imagined past; it is about creating a future in which truth has enough protection to withstand pressure, and in which citizens can believe that what they learn about their government is worthy of their consent.}