{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26 \cf0 Week 9: Emergency Powers as Routine Governance\
In Trump\'92s ninth week back in office, wartime statutes, deportation flights, and agency purges turned law and bureaucracy into pliable tools of executive will.\
The ninth week of Trump\'92s second term did not turn on a single order or speech. It unfolded as a series of moves that, taken together, showed law, information, and institutional design being bent toward the will of the executive. Immigration, education, media, and regulation all became arenas where power was exercised less as a shared framework and more as a personal instrument. The pattern was not subtle. It was insistent.\
At the start of Week 9, the Democracy Clock stood at 7:52 p.m. By the end of the week, it read 7:56 p.m., a net movement of 3.3 minutes. The shift reflected the way emergency powers were folded into routine governance, courts were defied and attacked, and core state functions were reassigned to loyal units and private allies. Opposition still acted, and judges still ruled, but their ability to bind the executive narrowed. The change in time captured that gap between formal limits and effective power.\
The clearest expression of that gap came in the administration\'92s use of the Alien Enemies Act. An eighteenth\uc0\u8209 century wartime statute, long dormant in domestic life, was invoked to deport alleged members of the Tren de Aragua gang and broad categories of Venezuelan and Salvadoran migrants. The law\'92s original context\'97foreign enemies in declared war\'97was recast into a standing tool for peacetime immigration enforcement. With that move, the president claimed the right to expel noncitizens on his own judgment, without the usual immigration hearings and protections.\
On the ground, this authority was applied with blunt instruments. Tattoos and vague allegations of gang ties became enough to mark people for removal. LGBTQ+ migrants and asylum seekers with no criminal records were swept into the same net as violent offenders. ICE and CBP officers detained and mistreated people who, under prior practice, would have had a chance to contest the charges. A German green\uc0\u8209 card holder, a Canadian worker, and a child with brain cancer all appeared in reports of harsh treatment and denial of care. The line between \'93enemy\'94 and neighbor blurred.\
When Judge James Boasberg issued a temporary restraining order halting the deportation flights, the executive branch did not stop. Planes continued to leave for El Salvador, carrying shackled, shaved deportees whose images were later broadcast as a warning. The Department of Justice argued that Boasberg\'92s orders did not apply once aircraft left U.S. airspace, as if jurisdiction evaporated at the coastline. The judge, unconvinced, demanded explanations for apparent noncompliance and pressed the government to account for its actions. The question was no longer only what the law allowed. It was whether the executive felt bound to obey.\
The administration did not hide what it was doing. It turned the deportations into spectacle. Footage of migrants in El Salvador\'92s harsh prisons\'97shaved heads, crowded cells, rows of shackled bodies\'97was shared by both governments as proof of toughness. A deportation video set to a popular song, used without permission, framed expulsions as a kind of dark entertainment. The message was simple. The state could reach across borders, strip people of dignity, and present the result as a political victory.\
At the same time, the president ordered airstrikes in Yemen without seeking congressional authorization. The use of force abroad, like the use of force at the border, moved further from shared deliberation and closer to unilateral command. Plans emerged for a militarized buffer zone along the New Mexico border, staffed by active\uc0\u8209 duty troops with detention authority. And in a single stroke, the administration revoked parole\u8209 like protections for more than 530,000 immigrants from Cuba, Haiti, Nicaragua, and Venezuela, exposing them to deportation after years of lawful presence. Emergency logic\'97exceptional powers for extraordinary threats\'97was becoming the baseline.\
The legal and rhetorical frame around these actions made the underlying view of law plain. In a Justice Department speech that was nominally about policy, the president used the occasion to celebrate his own legal victories and air grievances about cases that had gone against him. The distinction between personal interest and neutral enforcement blurred. Soon after, he declared that President Biden\'92s pardons were void because they had been signed by autopen, despite archival clarification that this was standard practice. The suggestion was that a sitting president could retroactively strip legal protections granted by a predecessor, not through statute or court ruling, but by assertion.\
When courts pushed back on deportations, the confrontation sharpened. The Department of Justice sought to remove Judge Boasberg from the case and to narrow his authority over flights that had already taken off. The president called for his impeachment after adverse rulings, and Representative Brandon Gill introduced impeachment articles that echoed those demands. The White House press secretary went further, attacking Boasberg and his family in public statements, portraying him as a partisan actor and highlighting his spouse\'92s donations. Bomb threats against judges who blocked Trump policies followed from supporters and allied media rhetoric that dismissed harms to innocent deportees as a \'93tough break.\'94\
Yet the judiciary did not simply absorb these blows. Chief Justice John Roberts issued a rare public rebuke, defending impeachment standards and the role of appellate review. Other federal judges, in at least a dozen cases, ruled key Trump orders illegal, including the misuse of the Alien Enemies Act and attempts to claw back climate grants. Courts blocked the dismantling of USAID as likely unconstitutional, halted a transgender military ban, and barred deportation of specific activists and academics while their cases proceeded. The formal structure of judicial review held. The practical question was whether rulings would be enforced, or whether they would be met with delay, reinterpretation, and political punishment.\
Immigration policy became the main laboratory for this new relationship between law and power. Beyond mass deportations, the administration used visas, detention, and status revocations to target pro\uc0\u8209 Palestinian activists and academics. Mahmoud Khalil and Badar Khan Suri faced detention and deportation threats tied to their speech and scholarship. Long\u8209 time activist Jeanette Vizguerra was again placed at risk. Visa revocations and arrests on or near campuses sent a clear signal: political expression could carry immigration consequences. Courts intervened in some cases, issuing orders that protected individuals while litigation proceeded, but the chilling effect spread more widely.\
At the same time, ICE intensified raids on Chinese immigrants nationwide, including in sanctuary cities. Reports described operations that left communities fearful and uncertain, with little clarity about who might be targeted next. Legal residents and workers found themselves detained for minor paperwork issues or mistaken identity. The revocation of parole and TPS\uc0\u8209 like protections for hundreds of thousands of people from Cuba, Haiti, Nicaragua, and Venezuela turned previously stable lives into precarious ones overnight. Citizenship and legal presence no longer functioned as firm shields. They became contingent, especially for those from disfavored countries or associated with disfavored causes.\
The administration\'92s approach to detention and punishment reinforced this stratification. Images of migrants in El Salvador\'92s prisons, circulated by both governments, normalized extraterritorial punishment as an extension of U.S. policy. Plans for a militarized buffer zone on the southern border blurred the line between civilian law enforcement and military deployment. Within the United States, Tesla property damage by protesters or vandals was labeled domestic terrorism, with talk of twenty\uc0\u8209 year sentences in foreign prisons. Meanwhile, a January 6 participant, pardoned earlier, filed to run for the U.S. Senate on a hardline platform. The contrast between how different forms of lawbreaking were treated was stark.\
Education and universities became another front where law and funding were used to reshape civic life. Through a series of executive orders, the president moved to dismantle the Department of Education, a congressionally created department, and to reassign its functions by decree. Student loan management was ordered to shift to the Small Business Administration, an agency with a different mission and oversight structure. Disability education and civil\uc0\u8209 rights enforcement functions were slated for reassignment as well. Online applications for income\u8209 driven repayment plans disappeared from government websites, leaving borrowers without clear paths to relief that remained on the books.\
The American Federation of Teachers responded by suing the Department of Education over halted income\uc0\u8209 driven repayment processing, arguing that statutory options could not be frozen by administrative choice. At the same time, the administration announced that the SBA would take over the federal student loan portfolio, a massive public finance system, without a clear plan for borrower protections. Courts granted the Justice Department extra time in mifepristone litigation, opening space for potential policy shifts on medication abortion access. Regulatory levers\'97forms, deadlines, agency assignments\'97became tools for narrowing substantive rights without explicit repeal.\
On campus, federal power was used more directly. The administration withdrew $400 million in federal funding from Columbia University and tied its restoration to demands about protest management, departmental structures, and policing. At the University of Pennsylvania, $175 million in funding was frozen over policies on transgender athletes in women\'92s sports. An antisemitism taskforce and broad investigations into universities were announced, framed as civil\uc0\u8209 rights enforcement but closely linked to pressure on pro\u8209 Palestinian speech and scholarship. At UCLA, Gaza solidarity protesters entered litigation over alleged wrongful arrests and excessive force, raising questions about how universities and police handled politically charged demonstrations.\
These moves did not occur in isolation. The Department of Veterans Affairs announced a phaseout of gender\uc0\u8209 affirming care for veterans, narrowing access to established medical services. Federal courts lifted prior blocks on executive orders dismantling diversity, equity, inclusion, and accessibility programs across the government, reshaping employment norms and internal culture. Together, these actions signaled a shift away from inclusive policies and toward a more constrained vision of who belonged in public institutions and on campus. Civic education, in both formal and informal forms, was being hollowed out and replaced with market and security logics.\
Behind these visible battles, the machinery of the administrative state was being hollowed out and repurposed. The Department of Government Efficiency, or DOGE, emerged as a central instrument. Through executive orders, DOGE secured sweeping access to unclassified federal records and software systems, consolidating data and procurement authority in a lightly accountable unit. New orders on procurement, data sharing, and mineral production prioritized extractive industries and centralized contract decisions in the executive branch. The language was one of efficiency and anti\uc0\u8209 waste. The effect was to concentrate informational and economic power.\
Concrete cuts followed. Deep staff reductions at the IRS led to mass firings and office closures, undermining tax collection and enforcement. The administration falsely claimed that thousands of employees had been fired for poor performance, despite internal warnings to the contrary. At the Federal Trade Commission, Democratic commissioners were fired, leaving the agency without a quorum and effectively paralyzing antitrust and consumer\uc0\u8209 protection work. The National Nuclear Security Administration faced staff freezes that threatened its technical capacity. The Department of Agriculture reduced inspection teams for plant and food imports, increasing risks from pests and unsafe products.\
DOGE\'92s reach extended into peacebuilding and culture. The administration removed the board of the U.S. Institute of Peace and asserted control over the institution, undermining its statutory independence. DOGE teams moved to eliminate the Institute of Museum and Library Services, canceling grants and voiding contracts that supported libraries and museums across the country. A contract tracking Russian abductions of Ukrainian children was terminated, signaling a deprioritization of certain human\uc0\u8209 rights investigations. USAID operations were frozen or redirected, though federal courts later blocked the full shutdown as likely unconstitutional and ordered restoration of staff and systems.\
Judges also intervened to limit DOGE\'92s push into Social Security data. Courts blocked the unit from accessing Social Security systems in what they described as a fishing expedition, ordered deletion of collected personal data, and criticized the broad fraud rationale offered by the government. New Social Security identity rules and a freeze on automatic SSN issuance for noncitizens, however, still went forward, straining field offices and delaying benefits for elderly, disabled, and immigrant claimants. The full\uc0\u8209 year appropriations law, passed with Democratic divisions and signed by the president, kept agencies funded but also locked in many of these restructuring priorities, reducing Congress\'92s near\u8209 term leverage.\
Within this reconfigured state, a small circle of corporate allies gained unusual prominence. Elon Musk and his companies stood at the center of this pattern. Reports described FAA contracts moving from Verizon to Starlink, while Starlink installed donated internet infrastructure across the White House campus. DOGE and the administration embraced land and mining initiatives that opened protected federal lands for housing and extraction, alongside a clean coal initiative and moves to restart coal plants. Tariffs that raised consumer costs and threatened jobs were justified as tools of national strength, even as they aligned with certain industrial interests.\
Dissent around Musk and his firms was treated as a security matter. Property damage at Tesla facilities was labeled domestic terrorism, with officials floating the possibility of twenty\uc0\u8209 year sentences in foreign prisons. Representative Jasmine Crockett and allied organizers planned nationwide nonviolent protests at Tesla dealerships, urging divestment from the company; these actions tested how far protest rights would be respected when aimed at a favored corporate ally. Musk, for his part, called for prosecution of alleged Pentagon leakers who disclosed his planned briefing on China war scenarios, signaling hostility toward whistleblowing about his role in national security planning.\
The administration\'92s treatment of other actors reinforced the sense that law was being applied with an eye to loyalty. Democratic\uc0\u8209 aligned law firms were targeted with executive orders and public attacks, then saw punitive measures lifted once they agreed to policy changes and neutrality commitments. Security clearances were revoked from prominent political and legal opponents, including Joe Biden, Kamala Harris, and Liz Cheney, using access to classified information as a tool of punishment rather than a judgment about risk. Secret Service protection was stripped from Biden\'92s adult children, suggesting that personal security could be granted or withdrawn based on political rivalry.\
Information and memory were reshaped to support this new order. The White House restricted Associated Press access to the Oval Office and Air Force One over disputes about naming conventions, signaling that press access depended on editorial compliance. The administration dismantled the U.S. Agency for Global Media and shut down Voice of America and related broadcasters, eliminating a major source of U.S.\uc0\u8209 funded journalism that had operated with some independence. In their place, more tightly controlled outlets and feeds were poised to carry regime\u8209 aligned content.\
On government websites, key guidance and historical material disappeared. A Surgeon General advisory framing gun violence as a public\uc0\u8209 health issue was removed from Health and Human Services pages. The Department of Justice deleted eleven ADA\u8209 related business guidance documents, including those on COVID and masking, under the banner of deregulation and inflation relief. The Pentagon removed and then partially restored online content about Code Talkers, Black veterans, and women pilots, rebranding them as \'93DEI\'94 material before selective restoration. These changes did not erase history outright. They recast it, narrowing the official record of harm and struggle.\
Propaganda filled some of the space left behind. Deportation imagery, including the El Salvador prison footage, was used to celebrate harsh treatment of migrants. A deportation video set to a familiar song turned expulsions into a shareable clip. Judges, campus protesters, and Tesla vandals were portrayed as radical or terrorist threats in public statements and allied commentary. Claims that Biden\'92s autopen\uc0\u8209 signed pardons were invalid persisted even after the National Archives explained standard practice. Misrepresentations about IRS firings and other staff cuts framed deregulatory moves as housecleaning. At the same time, the administration released thousands of JFK assassination files and issued environmental impact statements for public comment, gestures of transparency that stood in tension with the broader trend.\
Security and legal tools were increasingly personalized. Beyond the clearance revocations and Secret Service changes, the president\'92s attempt to void Biden\'92s pardons suggested that even settled acts of clemency could be reopened for political reasons. Terrorism charges were deployed against Tesla vandals, while some January 6 participants moved into electoral politics. Judges who ruled against the administration faced impeachment calls, smears, and threats. Whistleblowers, like FBI agent Johnathan Buma, were arrested rather than protected. The message to officials and citizens alike was that exposing misconduct or resisting directives could carry serious personal cost.\
Opposition did not vanish. Democratic attorneys general filed multiple lawsuits and secured temporary restraining orders against firings, funding pauses, and other directives. They held community impact hearings that gathered testimony on job losses, deportations, and funding cuts, linking affected communities to legal challenges. Federal courts protected transgender service members, blocked some uses of the Alien Enemies Act, and shielded targeted activists and academics from immediate deportation. Local institutions, such as a New York village government confronted by a man falsely claiming to be mayor, resisted extra\uc0\u8209 legal power grabs. These acts showed that institutional muscle remained.\
Environmental and public\uc0\u8209 health protections formed another contested field. EPA Administrator Lee Zeldin proposed rolling back thirty\u8209 one environmental regulations on air, water, and climate, shifting priorities toward short\u8209 term cost savings for industry. A clean coal initiative and moves to restart coal plants aligned energy policy with high\u8209 emission fuels. Protected federal lands were slated for housing and mining, favoring development and extraction over conservation. USDA inspection cuts, NNSA staff freezes, and tariffs that raised consumer costs all pointed in the same direction: long\u8209 term collective goods were subordinated to immediate economic and political aims.\
Within this deregulatory push, technical rule changes accumulated. EPA approved state air plan revisions and stayed sanctions in California and Sacramento, extended greenhouse gas reporting deadlines, delayed removal of a gasoline volatility waiver, and withdrew a coal waste rule after adverse comments. New pesticide tolerances and exemptions were set. The FDA updated medical device standards and revoked emergency authorizations for certain COVID\uc0\u8209 19 tests. OSHA renewed information collections for workplace safety, and TSA maintained data requirements for airport security. These actions showed that routine governance continued, even as the overall trajectory favored weaker protections and looser oversight.\
No single development in Week 9 resolved the contest between executive ambition and institutional constraint. Courts asserted limits but struggled to enforce them against an administration willing to test the edges of compliance. Congress kept the government open but, in doing so, bankrolled much of the restructuring it opposed. Universities, journalists, and civil\uc0\u8209 society groups turned to litigation and protest, only to find that the costs of resistance were rising. The week\'92s movement on the Democracy Clock captured this deepening erosion: not a collapse, but a steady shift in which law, memory, and state capacity were refashioned to serve power rather than restrain it.\
}